An Act to Establish a Code of Civil Procedure for the State of Texas.
Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Texas, as follows:
Preliminary Provisions.

Article 1. This act prescribes the mode of proceeding in civil cases in the Courts of this State, and is known as the Code of Civil Procedure.

SEC. 2. Proceedings in civil cases are divided into:
1. Suits.
2. Special proceedings in civil cases.

SEC. 3. A suit is an ordinary proceeding in a Court of justice, by one party against another, for the enforcement or protection of a private right, or the redress or prevention of a private wrong. It may also be brought for the recovery of a penalty, forfeiture, or escheat.

SEC. 4. Every other proceeding in a civil case, is a special proceeding.

SEC. 5. Where the violation of a right involves both a private and a public wrong, a proceeding for the former is not merged in the latter.

SEC. 6. There is no distinction between actions at law and suits in equity; and there is but one form of suit.

SEC. 7. The party who prosecutes a suit or special proceeding, is called the plaintiff; and the adverse party is called the defendant.

SEC. 8. All courts shall be open, and every person, for an injury done him in his lands, goods, person or reputation, shall have remedy by due course of law.

SEC. 9. To sue ordinarily means to commence a suit; but where it is said a party may sue, it means he may maintain a suit. The person against whom a suit is brought is said to be sued.

SEC. 10. This Code is divided into five parts, as follows:
Part I relates to the jurisdiction of the Courts of justice of this State.
Part II relates to the mode of proceeding in the District Courts, in civil cases.
Part III relates to the mode of proceeding in the Supreme Court, in civil cases.
Part IV relates to the mode of proceeding in the Courts of Justices of the Peace in civil cases.
Part V relates to the mode of proceeding in County Courts in matters of probate.

Part I. Of the Courts of Justice and their Jurisdiction.

Title I. Of the Courts in General.

Article 11. The following are the Courts of justice of this State, which have jurisdiction in civil cases:
1. The Supreme Court.
2. The District Court.
3. The Courts of Justices of the Peace.
4. The County Courts.

SEC. 12. These Courts exercise the jurisdiction conferred upon them by the Constitution, and the laws now in force, except as otherwise prescribed in this Act.

Title II. The Supreme Court.

SEC. 13. The Supreme Court has jurisdiction to review upon appeal,
1. Every final judgment of the District Courts.
2. After final judgment, every interlocutory judgment or order of the District Courts.
3. Before final judgment, every interlocutory judgment,
1. Refusing or dissolving an injunction.
2. Quashing a provisional remedy, where the property seized has not been replevied by the adverse party.

SEC. 14. The Supreme Court and Judges thereof have power also,
1. To issue the writ of habeas corpus.
2. To issue writs of mandamus, where necessary to enforce its own jurisdiction.
3. To issue such other writs as may be necessary to enforce its jurisdiction.
4. To compel a Judge of the District Court to proceed to trial and judgment. 

Title III. The District Courts.

Chapter I. The Original Jurisdiction of the District Courts.

SEC. 15. The District Courts have original jurisdiction,
1. Of all suits in behalf of the State to recover penalties, forfeitures and escheats.
2. Of all suits for divorce.
3. Of all suits, complaints and pleas whatever, without regard to any distinction between law and equity, when the matter in controversy shall be valued at, or amount to one hundred dollars.
4. Over estates of deceased persons, infants and persons of unsound mind, subject to Article 17.

SEC. 16. The amount in controversy, within the meaning of the preceding article, is the amount claimed by either party to the suit, or the value alleged.

SEC. 17. The jurisdiction mentioned in the fourth subdivision of article 15, is subject to the following regulations:
1. It shall not be exercised where the estate is being administered in the County Court, unless there be a question of fraud, heirship, validity of a will, or other question of fact which ought to be tried by a jury.
2. It may be exercised in all cases, where the Judge or Clerk of the County Court is a party, or is interested as heir, devisee or legatee. In the cases mentioned in the first subdivision of this article, the judgment shall be certified to the County Court for observance. In the cases mentioned in the second subdivision, the estate may be administered, or the business transacted in the District Court.

SEC. 18. The said Courts, or the Judges thereof, have power to issue all writs necessary to enforce their jurisdiction.

Chapter II. The Appellate Jurisdiction of the District Courts.

SEC. 19. The District Courts have a general superintendence and control over inferior jurisdictions; and the said Courts, or the Judges thereof, may issue all writs, necessary to enforce such jurisdiction.

SEC. 20. In addition to the jurisdiction mentioned in the preceding Article, the District Courts have jurisdiction to review on appeal, every order of the County Court. 

Title IV. The Courts of Justices of the Peace.

SEC. 21. Justices of the Peace shall have civil jurisdiction in the following cases, and no other:
1. Suits arising on contract, for the recovery of money only, where the sum claimed, exclusive of interest, does not exceed one hundred dollars.
2. Suits for the recovery of specific articles or the value thereof, where the value of the articles or the damages claimed do not exceed one hundred dollars.
3. Suits for damages for injuries to the person or to property, real or personal, where the damages claimed to not exceed one hundred dollars, except such suits as are mentioned in article 22.  
4. Suits to obtain possession of real property, by a landlord against a tenant, or in any other case where the title does not come in question in the manner provided in article 24.
5. Suits for a penalty, fine or forfeiture not exceeding one hundred dollars.
6. Suits in all cases where a right of action accrues under any law of this state, and the amount recoverable is less than one hundred dollars.
7. Suit on a bond, conditioned for the payment of money, not exceeding one hundred dollars, though the penalty exceed that sum: the judgment to be given for the amount actually due.
8. Where payments are to be made in installments of less than one hundred dollars, suit may be brought for each installment as it shall become due, but not after two or more installments are due, exceeding in the aggregate one hundred dollars exclusive of interest. 
9. A suit upon a surety bond taken by them in a civil case, though the penalty or amount claimed exceed one hundred dollars.
10. To take and enter judgment on the confession of a defendant, where the amount confessed shall not exceed five hundred dollars.
11. Suits for damages for fraud in the sale, purchase, or exchange of personal property, where the damages claimed do not exceed one hundred dollars.
12. Over all other matters not herein enumerated, that may be cognizable before a Justice of the Peace, under the laws of this state. 

SEC. 22. But a Justice of the Peace shall not have cognizance of a suit for an assault, batter, false imprisonment, libel, slander, malicious prosecution, criminal conversation or seduction.

SEC. 23. Where a Justice of the Peace shall have jurisdiction of the suit of the plaintiff, he shall have jurisdiction of any counterclaim, to the amount of the plaintiff’s demand, and the answer thereto, where such counterclaim is in its nature pleadable in such suit, notwithstanding it may exceed one hundred dollars. 

SEC. 24. Where suit is brought before a Justice of the Peace, under subdivision four of article 21, in any case except by a landlord against a tenant under written lease, if the defendant file an affidavit or offer to make oath that either he or some other person, stating the name of such person if known, or stating that such person is unknown claims the land, and that he believes such claim to be well founded, or that he believes the land to be vacant, the Justice shall make an entry of the fact and proceed no further: but shall make out a certified copy of the entries on his docket, and deliver the same with the original papers, to the Clerk of the District Court, who shall docket the same as a suit to try title, and such suit shall proceed in same manner as like suits, without the necessity of further service.

SEC. 25. If in the case mentioned in the preceding article, affidavit or oath be not made as therein provided, but it appear on the trial, from the plaintiff’s own showing, that the title to the real property is in question, and such title shall be disputed by the defendant, the Justice shall dismiss the suit, and render judgment against the plaintiff for costs.

SEC. 26. Where a Justice is party or interested in the suit, his proceedings are null and void; where he is related to either the plaintiff or defendant within the third degree of consanguinity or affinity, he cannot try the case if the objection be taken.

SEC. 27. Process issued by a Justice of the Peace cannot, except in cases expressly provided for by law, be executed beyond the limits of the county.

SEC. 28. A Justice of the Peace shall have power in suits within their jurisdiction, to issue writs of citation, attachment, sequestration, subpoenas and attachments for witnesses, execution, and such other writs as provided by law.

SEC. 29. A Justice of the Peace may punish a contempt of Court committed in presence of, or within hearing of the Court, by fine not exceeding one hundred dollars, and may commit the party to jail until the fine and costs are paid, not exceeding three days.

Title V. The Probate Jurisdiction of the County Courts.

SEC. 30. The County Courts have the following jurisdiction in matters of Probate:
1. To take probate of wills, and grant letters testamentary; appoint administrators and grant letters of administration on estates of deceased persons; transact business appertaining to the estates of deceased persons; settle the accounts of executors and administrators; and partition and distribute estates.
2. To appoint guardians of the persons and estates of minors, persons of unsound mind, and habitual drunkards; transact business appertaining to such estates; and settle the accounts of such guardians.
3. To settle the estates of insolvent persons. Which jurisdiction must be exercised in the manner prescribed by law.

SEC. 31. The term “persons of unsound mind,” when used in this Code, includes idiots, lunatics, and insane persons. 

SEC. 32. A habitual drunkard is one whose mind has become so impaired by the use of intoxicating liquors of drugs, that he is incapable of taking care of himself or his property.

SEC. 33. Where the County Court has jurisdiction, its process may run to, and be executed in any County in the State.

Part II. Of the Mode of Proceeding in the District Court in Civil Cases.

Title I. Parties to Suits.

Chapter I. Of the Plaintiff.

SECTION 1. Of the Plaintiff generally.

SEC. 34. Any person may sue, except where it is otherwise provided in this chapter, subject to the regulations prescribed in this Code.

SEC. 35. A corporation created by or under the laws of this state, or any other state or territory of the United States, or of any foreign government in whose courts the citizens and bodies corporate of this state are allowed to sue, may sue in its corporate name.

SEC. 36. The United States of America, and the several states and territories thereof, and any foreign state, sovereign or government at peace with and acknowledged by the United States of America, in whose courts this state is allowed to sue, may sue in the courts of this state.

SEC. 37. It shall be no objection to the capacity of the plaintiff, that he is an alien enemy, if he reside by permission in the United States, or if the suit is founded on a contract made before the declaration of war, except in the case of a foreign state, government or country. 

SEC. 38. An executor or administrator, appointed in another state or foreign country, cannot sue except where the suit respects assets which were within the jurisdiction of such other state or foreign country at the time of the decease of the testator or intestate, and there are not within such jurisdiction sufficient assets to pay the debts of such testator or intestate and the cost of administration. 

SEC. 39. A fugitive from justice from this State cannot sue.

SEC. 40. A free person of color who resides in this state in violation of law, or a slave, cannot sue except in relation to his freedom.

SEC. 41. Every suit must be brought in the name of the real party in interest, except as otherwise provided in this Title.

SECTION 2. Joinder of Plaintiffs.

SEC. 42. All who are competent to sue, and who have a joint and not a several interest in obtaining the relief claimed, must be joined as plaintiffs; but if the consent of any one who should be joined as plaintiff, cannot be obtained, he may be made a defendant; the reason thereof being stated in the complaint. 

SEC. 43. All who are competent to sue, and who have an interest in obtaining the relief claimed, may be joined as plaintiffs.

SEC. 44. All who are injured by the same breach of a condition in a bond, and who sustain the same relation, may be joined as plaintiffs.

SEC. 45. One who has assigned his entire interest is not a necessary party, plaintiff.

SEC. 46. Executors and administrators and trustees of an express trust may sue without joining with them those whose interest they represent. But the real parties in interest may intervene, unconditionally in suits affecting the title to lands or slaves, and by leave of the court in other cases, where it is necessary to protect their interest.

SEC. 47. A trustee of an express trust within the meaning of this Title, shall be construed to include a person with whom and in whose name a contract is made, for the benefit of another. 

SEC. 48. A beneficiary of an express trust cannot sue without joining the trustee, either as plaintiff or defendant.

SEC. 49. Where there is no executor or administrator in the state, the heirs may sue, but if there be a creditor or creditors of the estate, the heirs shall not have final judgment, unless they file a bond in an amount to be fixed by the court, with sureties to be approved by the court, payable to the creditors of the deceased without naming them, to the effect that all the debts of the deceased shall be paid within on year from its date: provided that where such bond shall have been given in one suit, it shall not be necessary to give it in another, unless it appear to the court that the bond already given is insufficient in amount or sureties. After the year has elapsed any creditor may sue on the bond so given. 

SEC. 50. A person expressly authorized by the statute may sue without joining those whose interest he represents.

SEC. 51. When a large number of persons have a common interest in the entire object of a suit, in its nature beneficial to them all, one or more of them may sue in behalf of all, subject to article 56.

SEC. 52. Where a suit is brought under the preceding article, those whose interests are represented by others, shall not be bound where the suit is decided upon anything personal or peculiar to those by whom they are represented; and it shall be competent for the court, in any suit under the preceding article, to save the rights of those who shall be absent. 

SEC. 53. Suits, by joint stock companies, not incorporated, or associations of any kind whatever, consisting of over seven members, shall be brought in the name of the chief officer or managing agent. 

SEC. 54. A suit to enforce a lien upon a steamboat or other vessels may be brought jointly by several persons having distinct claims for wages, work, material, stores, provisions, or supplies. In such cases the statement in the complaint of the claim of every plaintiff, must be separately made. 

SEC. 55. In a suit to enforce a lien upon a steamboat or vessel for wages, work, materials stores or supplies, other persons having the like liens, shall, upon exhibiting the same to the court by complaint verified by affidavit be made parties plaintiff.

SEC. 56. The Court shall determine the controversy between the parties before it, when it can be done without prejudice to the rights of others, or by saving their rights; and where it cannot be done without prejudice to the rights of others, and where the rights of others are so involved that they cannot be saved, the court must cause such others to be brought in, although the objection of want of proper parties may not have been taken.

SEC. 57. The misjoinder of plaintiffs shall not affect the suit; but he same shall be dismissed as to those improperly joined, and the defendant shall recover the costs occasioned by such misjoinder.

Chapter II. Of the Defendant.

SECTION 1. Of the Defendant generally.

SEC. 58. A suit may be brought against any person except where it is otherwise provided in this title, and subject to the rules prescribed in this code.

SEC. 59. Executors and administrators, appointed to another state or foreign country, may be sued respecting the trust fund which they may have received abroad and brought into this state. If there be an executor or administrator appointed here he shall bring the suit; but if there be no administrator appointed here, the suit may be brought by any person interested therein.

SEC. 60. A suit may be maintained against any corporation created by or under the laws of this state or any other state, government or country; provided, however, that such suit cannot be maintained against a corporation created by or under the laws of any other state, government or country, except—
1. Where there is within the jurisdiction of this state the president or other head of the corporation, secretary, cashier, treasurer, a director or managing agent thereof; or 
2. Where such corporation has property within this state; or
3. Where the causes of action or any part thereof arose in this state; or
4. Where the subject of the suit is real or personal property in this state, and such corporation has or claims a lien or interest, actual or contingent, therein, or the relief claimed consists wholly or partly in excluding such corporation for any lien or interest therein. 

SEC. 61. A suit cannot be maintained against a person who is not a resident of this State, and is not found and has no property therein, except—
1. Where the cause of action or part thereof arose in this state.
2. Where the subject of the suit is real or personal property in this state, and the defendant has or claims a lien or interest, actual or contingent, therein, or the relief claimed consists wholly or partly in excluding the defendant from any lien or interest therein.
3. Suits for divorce. 

SEC. 62. A suit cannot be maintained against this state, the United States of America, nor any state thereof, nor against any foreign state, sovereign or government recognized by the United States of America.

SEC. 63. A suit cannot be maintained in the Courts of this State, against ambassadors or other public ministers or their domestics, nor against consuls nor vice-consuls.

SEC. 64. A suit cannot be maintained against a slave.

SEC. 65. Every suit must be brought against the real party in interest, except as otherwise provided in this Title.

SECTION 2. Joinder of defendants.

SEC. 66. All persons whom it is competent to sue, and who are jointly and not severally interested in resisting the relief demanded, must be joined as defendants, except where one or more are dead, beyond the jurisdiction of the Court, insolvent, or transient persons beyond the limits of the county.

SEC. 67. All persons who are severally interested in resisting the relief demanded, and all who claim an interest adverse to the relief demanded, may be joined as defendants. And the representatives of a deceased person who was jointly interested, may be joined as defendants with the survivor or survivors.

SEC. 68. Executors, administrators and trustees of an express trust may be sued without joining with them the person or persons whose interest they represent. But the real parties in interest may intervene unconditionally in suits which affect the title to lands or slaves, and by leave of the court in other cases, where it is necessary to protect their interest.

SEC. 69. Where there is no executor, administrator or trustee in this state, the suit may be maintained against the heir or beneficiary alone.

SEC. 70. Where the question is one of common or general interest of many persons, or where the persons in interest are very numerous, some may be made defendants in behalf of themselves and all the others, provided that a sufficient number be made defendants to represent all the adverse interests; and subject to article 56.

SEC. 71. Where a suit is defended by some on behalf of themselves and others, under the preceding article, those whose interest they represent shall not be bound, wehre the suit is decided upon any thing personal or peculiar to those who defend; and it shall be competent for the Court, in any suit under the preceding article, to save the rights of those who shall be absent.

SEC. 72. A suit against joint stock companies not incorporated, or associations of any kind whatsoever not incorporated, consisting of over seven members, may be brought against the chief officer or managing agent thereof, in his official capacity.

SEC. 73. A suit to enforce the liability of a steam boat or other vessel, for any claim or lien to which it may be subject, and in which no relief is claimed beyond the subjection of the boat or vessel and appurtenances to the satisfaction of the plaintiff’s claim, may be brought against the owner or owners thereof, without naming them, or they may be named and summoned as other defendants. An owner or part owner, or person having claim or title to the boat or vessel, not named as a defendant or summoned, may appear and make defense in the suit, where it satisfactorily appears by his affidavit, that he is an owner or part owner, or has a claim or title to the boat or vessel, the nature and extent of which must be stated.

SEC. 74. Where a suit is brought to enforce a lien, all other encumbrances existing at the commencement of the suit, and all persons having an interest in the equity of redemption, shall be made defendants. And any one who claims adversely may be made a defendant for the purpose of trying the title to the property, at the option of the plaintiff, or if the Court should deem it necessary for the protection of the rights of any of the defendants. This article does not apply to suits against steamboats or vessels to enfoce a claim or lien for an injury, or for wages, work, materials, stores, or supplies.

SEC. 75. In a suit for partition, all encumbrances shall be made defendants; and any one who claims adversely may be made a defendant, for the purpose of trying the title, either at the option of the plaintiff, or if the Court should deem it necessary for the protection of the rights of any of the defendants.

SEC. 76. A suit cannot be maintained against an endorser, guarantor or surety, liable as such only, without joining the principal in the same suit, except where a suit has been prosecuted to judgment, and a return of no property against the principal, or where the principal is dead, resides beyond the limits of the state, or is insolvent, or a transient person beyond the limits of the county at the commencement of the suit.

SEC. 77. Persons severally liable upon the same obligation or instrument, including the parties to bills of exchange and promissory notes, may, all or any of them, be joined as defendants, at the option of the plaintiff, subject to the exception contained in the preceding article. 

SEC. 78. But final judgment in such suit shall not be rendered against an endorser, surety or guarantor, liable as such only, unless judgment shall have been or shall at the same time be, rendered against the principal, except in cases where the principal resides beyond the limits of the state, or is dead or insolvent, or a transient person beyond the limits of the county.

SEC. 79. Article 56 of this Code applies to parties defendant as well as to parties plaintiff.

SEC. 80. The misjoinder of defendants shall not affect the suit; but the same shall be dismissed as to those improperly joined, and the plaintiff shall pay the costs occasioned thereby.

Chapter III. Of the Intervener. 

SEC. 81. Any one who is competent to sue or be sued, may intervene, where he has an interest, in a suit between other parties.

SEC. 82. The intervener may join the plaintiff in claiming the relief claimed by him, or any relief appropriate to the suit; or he may join the defendant in resisting the plaintiff’s claim, and on his own part may ask for any appropriate relief; or, where his interest requires it, he may oppose the relief claimed by both plaintiff and defendant.

SEC. 83. An intervener who joins the plaintiff or who opposes both plaintiff and defendant is regarded as a plaintiff; one who joins the defendant, is regarded as a defendant. But an intervener cannot claim any privilege peculiar to defendants, unless he be a necessary party defendant, or unless the Court would have ordered him to be made a defendant.

Chapter IV. Married women.

SEC. 84. When a married woman is a party, her husband must be joined with her, except where it is otherwise provided in this chapter.

SEC. 85. Where the suit concerns her separate property, she may sue alone; and, where the suit is between herself and her husband, she may sue or be sued alone.

SEC. 86. Where a husband and wife are sued together, the wife may defend for her own right; and if the husband neglect to defend, for his also.

SEC. 87. A married woman may at any time maintain a suit for the separation or partition of the common property, the same as in cases of other part owners.

SEC. 88. In such suit, donation made by the husband, and conveyances made by him in fraud or unfairness towards the wife, shall be taken into the account.

SEC. 89. Where the husband mismanages the separate property of the wife, she may maintain a suit to have him enjoined from the further management thereof, and to permit her to manage the same.

SEC. 90. A married woman may maintain a suit to set aside a conveyance of common property, made by the husband in a spirit of fraud or unfairness towards the community rights of the wife, where the purchaser was privy to the husband’s intention.

SEC. 91. Married women are not necessary to proper parties to suits respecting the common property, except as provided in the next article; but they may be permitted to intervene by express order of the Court, wherever it is necessary for the protection of their rights.

SEC. 92. Where the husband has never resided in this state, has removed therefrom, or has been absent therefrom one year, or is not of sound mind, or is confined in the penitentiary, the wife, if she reside in this state, may bring any suit which is for the benefit of her husband, herself or the common property. 

Chapter V. Infants and persons of unsound mind.

SEC. 93. Where an infant is a party, he must appear by his general guardian, or by a guardian specially appointed for the particular suit.

SEC. 94. Where the infant has no general guardian in this state, the Judge or Justice of the Court in which it is proposed to bring the suit, or in which the suit is pending, shall, upon the petition or motion of the infant or of a relative or friend of the infant, or of any other party to the suit, appoint a special guardian.

SEC. 95. When the infant has not general guardian in this state, a suit in case of emergency may be commenced by any person, as next friend, and prosecuted until a general or special guardian can be appointed.

SEC. 96. A party or attorney in a suit cannot be appointed special guardian for an infant party therein; and where an infant and the general guardian are parties to the same suit, each in his own right, the Court shall appoint a special guardian for the infant.

SEC. 97. Before any other proceeding by him, the special guardian shall file a bond with two or more sureties to be approved by the Judge or Justice, in such amount as shall be directed, for the faithful discharge of his duties as such. Such bond shall be payable to the Chief Justice of the County, and shall be recoverable the same as bonds given by guardians in the County Courts; and new and additional security may be required from the general or special guardian, when deemed by the Court necessary for the protection of the rights of the infant.

SEC. 98. Where the infant is over fourteen years of age, he shall be permitted to nominate the special guardian, if he desire to do so, subject to the approval of the court.

SEC. 99. The articles respecting infant parties shall apply to persons of unsound mind.

Chapter VI. Substitution of parties.

SEC. 100. Upon affidavit of a defendant, before answer, in any suit upon contract or for the recovery of personal property, that some third party, without collusion with him, has or makes a claim to the subject of the suit, and that he is ready to pay or dispose thereof as the Court may direct, the Court may make an order for the safe keeping, or deposit in Court, or delivery of the same to such person as it may direct, and an order that such third party be cited to appear at the next term of the court and maintain or relinquish his claim against the defendant.

SEC. 101. If such third party, being served with a copy of the order and the plaintiff’s petition, in the same manner as is provided for the service of a citation on a defendant, fail to appear on or before the second day of the term, and file a statement of the nature and particulars of his claim, the Court may declare him barred of all claim in respect to the subject of the suit against the defendant therein, saving nevertheless the right or claim of such third party against the plaintiff.

SEC. 102. If such third party appear and file the statement of the nature and particulars of his claim, the Court shall order that such third party prosecute the suit as plaintiff or that he be substituted as defendant, according to the nature of the case; and the original defendant shall be discharged from all liability to either of the other parties, in respect to the subject of the suit, upon his compliance with the order of the Court, for the payment, deposit, or delivery thereof. 

SEC. 103. The provisions of the three preceding articles shall be applicable to a suit brought against a sheriff, or other officer, for the recovery of personal property taken by him under an execution or other process, or for the proceeds of such property so taken and sold by him. And the defendant in any such suit, shall be entitled to the benefit of those provisions, against the party in whose favor the execution or other process issued, upon exhibiting to the court the process under which he acted with his affidavit that the property, for the recovery of which, or its proceeds, the suit is brought, was taken under such process.

SEC. 104. In a suit against a sheriff or other officer, for the recovery of property taken under an execution or other process, the court may, upon the application of the defendant, and of the party in whose favor the execution or other process issued, permit the latter to be substituted as a defendant on the terms prescribed in article 100. 

SEC. 105. If the complaint in any suit mentioned in any of the five preceding articles, in addition to the subject of the suit, claim damages from the original defendant for the wrongful taking or detention thereof or injury thereto, the suit may proceed against such original defendant for such damages.

SEC. 106. No one can claim the benefit of the six preceding articles, who has paid over the proceeds to the execution creditor, or has accepted an indemnity from one of the claimants, or has unnecessarily and officiously subjected himself to the double risk, or insists on a lien unless it be of such a nature that it must be satisfied by the successful claimant, which ever party he may be, and the defendant limits his claim, to such lien. 

Chapter VII. Suit, when not to abate by death, etc., of parties.

SECTION 1. Causes of action that survive or continue.

SEC. 107. A cause of action arising out of an injury to the person or reputation, dies with the person of either party.

SEC. 108. All other causes of action survive, and may be brought by or against the representatives of the deceased party.

SEC. 109. Any cause of action arising out of contract may be assigned pending suit, and the cause of action shall continue to the assignee.

SEC. 110. Property which is in the adverse possession of another, or concerning which a suit is pending, may be sold, including a claim for the use, damages thereto and mesne profits, and the suit shall continue to the purchaser.

SEC. 111. Causes of action not included in either of the two preceding articles, are not assignable so as to continue the cause of action to the assignee; and an assignment in such cases shall cause the action to abate.

SECTION 2. Where a plaintiff dies or ceases to be executor, etc.

SEC. 112. When there are several plaintiffs, and one or more of them die, if the entire cause of action survive to the surviving plaintiff or plaintiffs, a suggestion of such death may be entered on the record, by either party, and the suit shall proceed in the name of the surviving plaintiff or plaintiffs, saving to defendants who have pleaded a counterclaim, the right to bring in the representatives of a deceased plaintiff, where it is necessary for their interest. 

SEC. 113. When a sole plaintiff, or sole surviving plaintiff, or one of several plaintiffs where the entire cause of action does not survive to the surviving plaintiff or plaintiffs, dies before verdict, and the cause of action survives to his representatives, the executor or administrator of such deceased plaintiff may file a suggestion of the death, and that he is such executor or administrator, and the suit shall thereupon proceed as if it had been commenced by such executor or administrator.

SEC. 114. When the executor or administrator, in cases mentioned in the preceding article, shall fail to file a suggestion of the plaintiff’s death and become a party at or before the first term of the Court after such death, the defendant may, either in term time or vacation, file such suggestion, in which the name and residence of the executor or administrator shall be stated; whereupon a citation shall be issued to such executor or administrator, commanding him to appear and make himself a party to the suit at the next term of the Court, to be served and returned as in other cases; and upon the return of the citation duly executed the suit shall proceed in all respects the same as if it had been originally commenced by such executor or administrator. 
 
SEC. 115. If there be no executor or administrator in this state, in cases mentioned in the preceding article, the suggestion by the defendant shall so state and shall state the names and residence of the heirs of the deceased plaintiff, or that they are unknown; whereupon a citation or citations shall be issued to the heirs, to be served and returned as in other cases; and upon the return of the citation or citations duly executed, the suit shall proceed in all respects the same as if it had been originally commenced by the heir or heirs.

SEC. 116. Where an executor, administrator or trustee of an express trust is plaintiff and dies or ceases to be such executor, administrator or trustee, before verdict, the like proceedings shall be had to make the successor of such executor, administrator or trustee a party, or the heir or beneficiary, where there is no such successor, as are provided in the four preceding articles.

SEC. 117. Where a suit hath been heretofore properly commenced in the name of one person for the use of another, the person whose name the suit hath been brought, shall be deemed to be a trustee of an express trust, within this meaning of the title. 

SECTION 3. Where a defendant dies or ceases to be executor, etc.

SEC. 118. Where there are several defendants, and one or more of them die, if the cause of action survive against the surviving defendant or defendants, a suggestion of such death may be entered on the record, and the suit shall proceed against the surviving defendant or defendants, unless the cause of action survives against the representatives of such deceased defendant or defendants, in which case such representatives may be made parties, as prescribed in the next article. 

SEC. 119. Where the sole defendant, or one or more of several defendants die before verdict, and the cause of action survives against their representatives, the executor or administrator of such deceased defendant, or the heir, if there be no executor or administrator, may file a suggestion of the death and that he is such executor or administrator, or that he is such heir or that there is no executor or administrator, and the suit shall thereupon proceed as if it had been commenced against such executor, administrator, or heir; or the plaintiff may file such suggestion, stating the name and residence of the executor, administrator or heir, or that they are unknown, whereupon a citation or citations shall be issued to such executor, administrator or heir, to appear at the next term of the Court and make himself a party to the suit; to be served and returned as in other cases; and upon the return of such citation duly executed, the suit shall proceed in all respects the same as if it had been commenced against the executor, administrator or heir. 

SEC. 120. Where an executor, administrator or trustee of an express trust is defendant and dies or ceases to be such executor, administrator, or trustee, before verdict, the like proceedings may be had to make the successor of such executor, administrator or trustee a party, or the heir or beneficiary, where there is no such successor, as are provided in the preceding article.

SECTION 4. Miscellaneous provisions.

SEC. 121. Where a party shall become of unsound mind, before verdict, the like proceedings shall be had to make his guardian a party, as if he had died; and if there be no general guardian, the Court shall appoint a special guardian as in other cases.

SEC. 122. Where either party shall die or become of unsound mind between verdict and judgment, or where an executor, administrator or trustee of an express trust, who shall be a party, shall cease to be executor, administrator or trustee between verdict and judgment, the judgement shall nevertheless be entered as if both parties were living or of sound mind, or as if such executor, administrator or trustee had not ceased to be such.

SEC. 123. Where there shall be any other transfer of interest in a suit, the suit may nevertheless be continued in the name of the original party; or the court may permit the person to whom the transfer is made, to be substituted.

SEC. 124. Where a female party to a suit marries, the fact being stated upon the record, the husband may be made a party, with his wife, and the suit shall proceed.

Chapter VIII. Of fictitious parties and appearances without authority.

SEC. 125. Where a party to a suit, his agent or attorney, shall make affidavit that he has cause to believe and does believe that the suit is prosecuted or defended by an attorney of the court or an alleged agent in fact without any authority from the party in interest, such authority shall be filed at or before the next term of the court, unless further time be obtained to file the same. 

SEC. 126. Where a party to a suit, his agent or attorney shall make affidavit that he has cause to believe and does believe, that the name of a plaintiff or intervener is fictitious, and that there is no such person, the attorney who represents such plaintiff or intervener shall at or before the next term fo the court, file a statement of the occupation or profession and residence of such plaintiff or intervener, specifying the city or town and also the name of the street and number of the house if any such there be, of such plaintiff’s or intervener’s residence or place of business; upon which issue may be joined, and the burden of proof shall be on the attorney who represents such plaintiff or intervener. 

Title II. The Venue.

Chapter I. Of the place of commencing suits, etc.

SEC. 127. The venue is the place of trial, and every suit shall be tried in the county where it is commenced, unless the venue be changed by order of the Court.

SEC. 128. Suits for the following causes must be commenced in the county in which the real property of compact thereof, is wholly or partly situated.
1. For the recovery of real property, or of an estate or interest therein, or for the determination of conflicting claims thereto.
2. For the partition of real property.
3. For an injury to real property.

SEC. 129. A suit for the sale of real property under a mortgage, lien or other encumbrance or charge, must be commenced in the county where such property or some part thereof, is wholly or partly situated, unless the defendant be a resident of this state, in which case it may be commenced in the county where the defendant, or one of several defendants liable on the mortgage resides.

SEC. 130. Every suit against a resident of this state, must be commenced in the county where he resides, or in case there be more defendants than one, where one of the defendants resides; except as otherwise provided in this title. The residence of a married woman shall be determined by that of her husband, unless she have a separate fixed residence. 

SEC. 131. A person who has no fixed residence in this state, is a transient person, and a suit other than one of those mentioned in Articles 128 and 129, may be commenced in any county where he is personally cited, in any county where the cause of action or part thereof arose, or in which the defendant has property.

SEC. 132. A person who habitually resides part of the year in one county and part in another may be sued in either of said counties.

SEC. 133. A suit other than one of those mentioned in articles 128 and 129, against a person who does not reside in this state, may be commenced in any county where the defendant is personally cited, or where he has property, or where the cause of action or part thereof arose.

SEC. 134. Where a person shall have contracted to perform an obligation in a particular county, any suit founded on the contract may be commenced by either party, in that county, or in the county where the defendant or one of several defendants resides.

SEC. 135. In cases of injury, not founded on contract, including all offenses for which a civil action lies, and in all cases of fraud, the suit may be commenced in the county where the injury or fraud or some part thereof was committed; or in the county where the defendant, or one of several defendants resides; and where the injury, offense, or fraud or any part thereof is committed on any lake, bay, bayou, river, stream, or road, which forms the boundary between two counties, the suit may be commenced in any county bordering on such lake, bay, bayou, river, stream, or road, and opposite to the place where the injury or fraud or any part thereof was committed.

SEC. 136. A suit for the recovery of personal property may be commenced in any county where the property is, at the time of commencing the suit, or in the county where the defendant, or one of several defendants resides.

SEC. 137. A suit to enforce a mortgage or other lien, encumbrance or charge on personal property may be commenced in any county, where the property or any part thereof is, at the time of commencing the suit, or in the county, where the defendant, or one of several defendants resides. 

SEC. 138. A suit against an executor, administrator or guardian to establish a demand for money, against the estate which he represents must be commenced in the county where the estate is administered.

SEC. 139. A suit to settle the estate of a deceased person must be brought in the county in which the estate is required by law to be administered. 

SEC. 140. A suit for the distribution of the estate of a deceased person, or for its partition among his heirs, or for the sale of real property or slaves descended from him must be brought in the county in which the estate is required by law to be administered.

SEC. 141. A suit to establish or set aside a will must be brought in the county where the will, if valid, ought according to law be recorded.

SEC. 142. A suit to revise the proceedings of the county court, in the administration and settlement of the estates of deceased persons, or of the estates of infants, or of persons of unsound mind, must be brought in the county in which such estates are administered.

SEC. 143. When the defendant has inherited an estate concerning which the suit is brought, it may be commenced in the county where such estate principally lies.

SEC. 144. The residence of a person confined in the penitentiary shall be deemed to remain the same as at the time of his arrest, unless such person shall have a wife in this state, in which case the residence of the wife shall be deemed to be the residence of the husband during such confinement.

SEC. 145. A suit against a municipal corporation may be commenced in an adjoining county; provided that a suit by one municipal corporation against another shall not be commenced in the county of the plaintiff.

SEC. 146. A suit, other than one of those mentioned in articles 128 and 129 against a private corporation created by the laws of this state, may be brought in the county in which it is situated, or has its principal office or place of business, or in which its chief officer resides; and if such corporation be an insurance company, the suit may be brought in the county in which there is an agency of the company, where it arises out of a transaction of such agency.

SEC. 147. A suit, other than one of those mentioned in articles 128 and 129 against a corporation created by or under the laws of any other state or country, must be commenced in a county in which there is property of such corporation, or in which there is an agency of such corporation, or in which the cause of action, or some part thereof arose.

SEC. 148. A suit against a railroad or canal company or owner of a lien of mail stages or other coaches, for an injury to person or property upon the road, canal, or line of stages or coaches of the defendant, or upon a liability as a carrier, or for illegally transporting a slave, may be brought in any county through which such road, canal or line of stages may pass; or, in any county where the route of such railroad, canal, stages or coaches may begin or terminate.

SEC. 149. A suit, other than one of those mentioned in articles 128 and 129 against a turnpike road company or owner of a road or bridge on which toll is collected, may be brought in any county in which the road or bridge or any part thereof is situated.

SEC. 150. A suit to subject a steamboat or other vessel upon a liability for the removal of a slave, or for an injury to another boat or craft, or for a trespass of its officers or crew, or to enforce a lien for wages, or for work, materials or supplies, may be brought in any county in which such boat or vessel may be found.

SEC. 151. The parties may, by an agreement in writing, consent that the suit shall be commenced in any county in this state, but such consent shall be filled with the papers of the cause.

SEC. 152. If the suit be brought in any other than the proper county, the defendant shall not be bound to appear or answer, unless it be the county in which he resides; and a judgment by default shall be void; but if the defendant appear, or if the suit be brought in the county in which he resides, it shall nevertheless be tried therein, unless before the time for answering expire, objections be filed stating the proper county. 

Chapter II. Of the change of venue.

SEC. 153. The Court may change the venue in the following cases:
1. By consent of all the parties filed in writing, or made in open court and entered of record.
2. Where there is good reason to believe that an impartial trial cannot be had in the proper county.
3. Where the presiding Judge is disqualified by reason of relationship, interest, or having been counsel in the cause. 

SEC. 154. The clerk, on the application of the attorney moving the change of venue, where a change of venue has been ordered, shall deliver to him a certified transcript of all the entries made in the suit, copied in the order in which they were made, together with the original papers on file; which shall be filed by said attorney in the Court of the county to which the venue is changed, on or before the first day of the next term of said court, if there be sufficient time therefore, and all other proceedings shall be had in the latter county. 

SEC. 155. If the transcript be not filed as prescribed in the preceding article, on or before the first day of the next ensuing term of the Court of the County to which the venue is changed, which fact shall be proved by the certificate of the Clerk of said Court, then the suit shall proceed or be dismissed, as if a change of venue had not been ordered; unless the delay be accounted for, and further time be allowed; and the venue of such suit shall not be afterwards changed on the motion of the same party. 

SEC. 156. The venue shall not be changed on the ground that there is reason to believe that an impartial trial cannot be had in the county in which the suit is commenced, unless the motion be supported by the oath of three disinterested credible persons, residents of the state, stating the facts and circumstances upon which such belief is founded; the sufficiency of which facts and circumstances shall be determined by the court. 

Title III. Of the joinder of suits.

SEC. 157. The plaintiff may unite in the same complaint several causes of action, without distinction between law and equity, where they arise out of,
1. The same transaction; or out of different transactions connected with the same subject of suit.
2. Contract, express or implied.
3. Injuries with or without force to the person.
4. Injuries with or without force to personal property.
5. Injuries with or without force to real property.
6. Injuries to character.
7. With a claim to recover real property may be united claims for injuries thereto, and the rents and profits thereof. 
8. Claims to recover personal property; and with a claim to recover such property, may be united claims for damages thereto, and for the withholding thereof.
9. Claims against a trustee, by virtue of a contract or by operation of law.
10. Claims for partition of real or personal property or both.
But the causes of action so united must all belong to one of these classes, and each must affect all the parties to the suit, and not require different places for their commencement, and must be separately stated and numbered.

SEC. 158. No judgment shall be reversed for any error committed in sustaining or overruling any objection for misjoinder of causes of action.

SEC. 159. The Court may, at any time before the final submission of the cause, on motion of the plaintiff, allow one or more of several causes of action stated in the complaint, to be withdrawn; but the defendant shall not be precluded thereby from insisting on any counterclaim which shall have been previously interposed by him. And in any subsequent suit against the same defendant, founded on the cause of action so withdrawn, the latter shall recover his reasonable costs.

SEC. 160. Where there are several causes of action or counterclaims and they do not arise out of the same transaction or out of different transactions connected with the same subject of suit, and the ends of justice will probably be promoted thereby, the Court may on motion of either party make an order for the separate trial of the distinct and unconnected issues; but only one jury shall be impaneled, and one judgment rendered. 

Title IV. Of the commencement of suits. 

Chapter I. Manner of commencing suits.

SEC. 161. A suit is commenced by filing a complaint.

SEC. 162. A suit shall not be commenced on Sunday, except in cases of attachment, sequestration or injunction and not then unless affidavit be made that the defendant is about to remove the property or commit an irreparable injury. 

SEC. 163. In a suit affecting the title to real property, the plaintiff, at the time of filing the complaint, or at any time afterwards, may filed with the County Clerk of each county in which the property is situated, other than the county in which the suit is commenced, a notice of the pendency of the suit, containing the names of the parties, the object of the suit, and a description of the property in that county affected thereby; said notices shall not be entered of record, but shall be numbered and filed by the Clerk of the County Court in their proper order, and indexed in the names of the parties. From the time of the filing of said notice only, shall the pendency of the suit be constructive notice to a purchaser or encumbrancer of the property affected thereby, which is out of the county in which the suit is commenced. 

SEC. 164. The Clerk shall immediately endorse on the complaint the day on which it is filed and sign his name thereto, also the number of the suit; and shall enter all suits in a docket in the order in which they are commenced, stating in a convenient form, the number of the suit, the names of the parties and their attorneys, the object of the suit, the officer’s return on the citation, and all subsequent proceedings, specifying the time when they were had.

SEC. 165. The Clerk may require security for all the costs of the suit, before issuing any process; unless the plaintiff, his agent or attorney shall make affidavit that the plaintiff is unable to give such security; but the complaint shall nevertheless be filed and be deemed the commencement of the suit. 

Chapter II. Of the citation.

SECTION 1. Of the citation by personal service.

SEC. 166. When a complaint is filed and personal service on the defendant or defendants is required, the clerk shall issue one citation to the sheriff of the county in which the complaint alleges the defendant or defendants reside; which citation shall be accompanied by a certified copy of the complaint for each defendant. 

SEC. 167. Where personal service is required to be made on several defendants, who reside in different counties, the clerk shall issue one citation to the sheriff of each county, which shall be accompanied by a certified copy of the complaint for each defendant residing in that county.

SEC. 168. Where personal service is required to be made on a defendant who is alleged to be absent from the county of his residence, the clerk shall issue a citation to the sheriff of the county in which he is alleged to be, which shall be accompanied by a certified copy of the complaint.

SEC. 169. In all cases not mentioned in the three preceding articles, where the complaint demands that the citation shall be issued to a county other than that in which the suit is commenced, in order that it may be personally served on one or more persons upon whom the law provides that service may be made, it shall issue accordingly, accompanied by a certified copy of the complaint for each person.

SEC. 170. In all cases not mentioned in the four preceding articles, where personal service is required, the citation shall be issued to the sheriff of the county in which the suit is commenced.

SEC. 171. Where the defendant or person on whom the citation is required to be served, resides in the county where the suit is commenced, a copy of the complaint shall not accompany the citation. 

SEC. 172. The citation shall be sufficient if it contain the following requisites:
1. Its style shall be, the State of Texas.
2. It shall be directed to the sheriff of the county in which it is to be served.
3. It shall command the sheriff to summon the defendant or defendants to answer the complaint, on or before the second day of the next term of the court, (stating the time when such term will commence,) by delivering to him in person a copy thereof, together with the certified copy of the accompanying complaint. It shall inform the defendant that if he fail to answer the complaint on or before the time specified, judgment for the relief claimed will be rendered against him.
4. It shall command the sheriff to make immediate return thereof.
5. And shall be attested by the clerk and the seal of the court.

SEC. 173. Where the citation is to be served in the county where the suit to commenced, instead of the command contained in the third subdivision of the preceding article, it shall command the sheriff, to summon the defendant or defendants to answer the complaint (here insert the names fo the parties to the suit, and a brief statement of the nature of the suit and the relief demanded) on or before the second day of the next term of the court (stating the time when such term will commence) by delivering to him in person a copy thereof. 

SEC. 174. Where the citation is required to be served on any person other than the defendant, as in the case of a corporation, or in any manner other than on the defendants, as in case of a suit against the owners of a steamboat without naming them, it shall state the name of the person on whom, or the manner in which it is to be served.

SECTION 2. Of citation by publication.

SEC. 175. If the plaintiff, his agent or attorney shall at the time of commencing the suit, or at any time during the progress thereof, make affidavit,
1. That a defendant is a non-resident, and absent from the state; or, 
2. That a defendant is a foreign corporation, having no managing agent or other officer in this state, known to the plaintiff, on whom service can be made; or,
3. That a defendant, though a resident of this state, is absent therefrom; or,
4. That a defendant is a transient person, and cannot be found; or, 
5. That a defendant conceals himself, so that the citation cannot be personally served,
The clerk shall issue a citation to the sheriff of the county where the suit is pending.

SEC. 176. The citation, where service is made by publication, shall be sufficient, if it contain the following requisites:
1. Its style shall be the state of Texas.
2. It shall be directed to the sheriff of the county in which the suit is commenced.
3. It shall command the sheriff to summon the defendant or defendants to answer the complaint, on or before the second day of the next term of the Court, (stating the time when such term will commence,) by causing a copy of the citation to be published in some newspaper published in said county, if there be one, and if not, in the newspaper published nearest the county seat of the county in which the cause is pending, for four consecutive weeks previous to the first day of the next term of the said Court.
4. It shall state the names of the parties to the suit, and contain a brief statement of the cause of action and the relief demanded.
5. It shall recite the ground upon which citation by publication is made, as stated in the affidavit.
6. It shall require the sheriff after making the publication to make immediate return thereof.
7. It shall be tested by the clerk, and the seal of the court.

SEC. 177. If the plaintiff, his agent or attorney, shall, at the time of commencing the suit, or at any time during the progress thereof, make affidavit that the names of the heirs, successors or legal representatives of any deceased person who if living would be a proper defendant in such suit are unknown to the affiant and that he has made efforts to ascertain such names, the clerk shall issue a citation to the sheriff of the county in which the suit is pending, in all respect similar to the form indicated in the preceding article, except that the defendants shall be described as the unknown heirs, successors or legal representatives of [naming the deceased person] deceased, and that the publication shall be made for eight consecutive weeks instead of four.

SEC. 178. Where a suit is brought for the partition of real property, if it appear by affidavit that the names of any of the part owners are unknown and that efforts have been made to ascertain such names, the clerk shall issue a citation to the sheriff of the county in which the suit is pending, in all respects similar to the form indicated in the second preceding article, except that the defendants shall be described as the unknown part owners of the property to be divided, and that the publication shall be made for eight consecutive weeks instead of four. 

SEC. 179. One citation only shall issue, and one publication thereof be made for the length of time required by articles 176, 177, and 178 notwithstanding there may be several defendants to be cited thereby. 

SECTION 3. Of the service and return of the citation. 

SEC. 180. Personal service of the citation shall be made as follows:
1. If it be issued to the county in which the suit is pending, by delivering to the defendant or person to be served a copy thereof.
2. If it be issued to a county other than that in which the suit is pending, by delivering to the defendant or person to be served, a copy thereof, and a certified copy of the complaint.
3. If the suit be against a private corporation, the copy of the citation or of the citation and complaint, as the case may be, shall be delivered to the chief officer, a director or managing agent thereof.
4. If the suit be against a county, city, or town, the copy of the citation, or of the citation and complaint, as the case may be, shall be delivered to the chief justice of such county, or mayor of such city or town.
5. If the suit be against an infant under fourteen years of age, or a person judicially declared to be of unsound mind, the copy of the citation, or of the citation and complaint, as the case may be, shall be delivered to the general guardian (or, if there be no general guardian, to the special guardian,) of such infant or person of unsound mind. If the infant be fourteen years of age, or the person of unsound mind be not judicially declared to be so, like copies shall be delivered to them in person.
6. IF the suit be against the owners of a steamboat or other vessel, without naming them under article 73, a copy of the citation shall be posted in a conspicuous place upon such steamboat or vessel. 

SEC. 182. The sheriff, or other officer, receiving the citation shall endorse thereon the day on which he received it, and shall without delay serve the same in the manner directed therein.

SEC. 183. Where the citation is not returned on or before the return day thereof, it may be returned afterwards.

SEC. 184. The return of the citation shall be made in writing on the back thereof or attached thereto, stating fully the time and manner of service, and shall be signed by the sheriff or other officer officially; and where service is made by publication, the return shall be verified by the affidavit of the officer. 

SEC. 185. Where the citation is issued to the sheriff of any other county than that in which the suit is commenced, it shall be lawful for such sheriff or other officer to mail the same with the proper return, in a strong envelope, post paid, addressed to the clerk by whom it was issued, with an endorsement on the envelope of the nature of the contents and the title of the suit, unless the plaintiff or his attorney shall have notified such sheriff or other officer, that he has an agent in said county, in which case the citation, with the proper return, shall be delivered to the said agent, if to be found in his county; the mailing or the delivery to the plaintiff’s agent shall be made in sufficient time for the citation to be duly returned to the Court from which it issued. 

SEC. 186. Any mistake or informality in the return of the citation may, on motion, at any time before final judgment be corrected by the officer who made it, so as to correspond with the fact.

SEC. 187. Objections to the sufficiency of the service of the citation, or of the return thereof, must be taken by motion to quash; but such motion is waived by filing a demurrer or answer. If the service be defective, the defendant shall be cited as in the first instance. If the return only be defective, the defendant shall have the next day after the motion is sustained and the return is amended to file his demurrer or answer. If the motion be overruled and the time for answering has elapsed, the plaintiff may take judgment by default, and the defendant shall be required to show cause for leave to plead, as in other cases of default. 

SECTION 4. Miscellaneous provisions respecting citation.

SEC. 188. A voluntary appearance of a defendant, by demurrer or answer, is equivalent to personal service of the citation upon him, and a waiver of all defects therein.

SEC. 189. Where the citation has been improperly served, or is not returned, or is returned without service, the clerk upon the application of the plaintiff shall issue other citation, directed to the sheriff of the same or any other county, as the plaintiff may direct.

SEC. 190. Where it is uncertain in which of several counties the person to be served can be found, citations may be issued upon the plaintiff’s application, to the sheriff of each of said counties; but only one shall be taxed in the costs.

SEC. 191. Where after the issue of a citation for service by publication, it appears by amendment of the complaint, that personal service of the defendant can be obtained, the clerk shall issue a citation for personal service, as in other cases.

SEC. 192. The person to be served, or his attorney in fact, may by writing signed and filed, waive the issue or service of citation. 

Chapter III. Service by actual notice to persons without the limits of the state.

SEC. 193. Where a defendant or person on whom the citation is required to be served is out of the limits of this state but within the limits of the United States, the plaintiff may cause a certified copy of the complaint to be delivered to him or her in person, together with a notice in writing to appear and answer the complaint within ninety days after the delivery of such notice, in default whereof judgment will be rendered in favor of the plaintiff for the relief demanded in the complaint. The person making such delivery shall take copies of the complaint and notice, and the proof of such delivery shall be endorsed thereon or annexed thereto, and shall be as follows: 
1. An affidavit of the person making such delivery, stating the time and place thereof; that the person to whom they were delivered is personally known to him; and that he is the same person described in the complaint. The affidavit shall be made before a commissioner for this state, or before a judge of a court of record, who must state in his certificate, under the seal of his office or court, that the affiant is personally known to him to be worthy of credit; or
2. By the return of the copies of the citation and notice, in open court, by the person making the delivery, who shall be found by the court to be a person worthy of credit; an entry of which, and of the proof of the delivery of the copies of the complaint and notice shall be made on the record.

SEC. 194. Such notice when property returned and proved, shall be taken and deemed to be personal service, so as to require the defendant to answer the complaint at the next term of the court, commencing not less than ninety days after such notice, in default whereof the same proceedings shall be had as in cases where the citation is personally served within this state. 

Title V. Of the pleadings in suits.

Chapter I. Of the complaint.

SEC. 195. The complaint shall contain,
1. A statement of the name of the court and the county where the suit is commenced, the names of the parties, plaintiff and defendant, and their residences if known.
2. A plain and concise statement of the facts which constitute the cause of action, without unnecessary repetition.
3. A demand of the relief to which the plaintiff supposes himself entitled. If the recovery of money be demanded, the amount thereof shall be stated.

Chapter II. Of the defendant’s demurrer and answer.

SECTION 1. General provisions.

SEC. 196. The only pleading on the part of the defendant is either a demurrer or answer.

SEC. 197. The demurrer or answer shall be filed on or before the second day of the term,
1. Where the citation is duly served by publication, before the first day of the term.
2. Where the citation is personally served in the county where it issues, or in any adjoining county, twenty days before the first day of the term.
3. Where the citation is personally served in any other county, thirty days before the first day of the term.
4. Where the citation against the owners of a steam boat, or other vessel under article 73 has been duly posted five days before the first day of the term.

SEC. 198. The demurrer or answer shall be filed within ninety days after the service of the citation,
1. Where the citation is personally served within this state, but not for the length of time before the term, prescribed for personal service in the preceding article.
2. Where notice is served out of this state within the United States, in the manner prescribed in article 193. 

SEC. 199. The defendant may demure to the whole complaint or to any of the alleged causes of action stated therein; and he may demur to one or more of the several alleged causes of action and answer the residue.

SEC. 200. If no objection be taken, either by demurrer or answer, the defendant shall be deemed to have waived the same, excepting only the objection that the court has not jurisdiction, and that the complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. 

SEC. 201. Where the suit is against an infant, or a person of unsound mind, or a person confined in the penitentiary, or a married woman, the plaintiff shall be required to prove the cause of action in the same manner as if the material facts alleged in the complaint be denied.

SEC. 202. Where a defendant is permitted to plead he shall be prepared with his pleading, and file it, so as not to delay the suit.

SECTION 2. Of the defendant’s demurrer.

SEC. 203. The defendant may demur to the complaint when it appears upon the face thereof, either
1. That the court has not jurisdiction of the person of the defendant, or of the subject of the suit.
2. That the suit is not commenced in the proper county.
3. That the plaintiff has not legal capacity to sue.
4. That the plaintiff is not entitled to recover in the capacity in which he sues.
5. That there is another suit pending in this state between the same parties, for the same cause.
6. That there is a defect of parties plaintiff or defendant.
7. That several causes of action have been improperly united.
8. That the allegations are so indefinite and uncertain in that the precise nature of the charge is not apparent.
9. That the suit is barred by the statute of limitations; or
10. That the complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.

SEC. 204. The demurrer shall distinctly specify wherein the complaint is liable to the objections named in the preceding article, or any one or more of them; unless it do so, it shall be regarded as objecting only on the ground that the complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.

SEC. 205. When any of the matters enumerated in article 203 do not appear upon the face of the complaint, the objection may be taken in the answer.

SECTION 3. Of the answer.

SEC. 206. The answer of the defendant must contain, 
1. Any one or more of the matters enumerated in article 203, where they do not appear upon the face of the complaint; or
2. A specific denial of each material allegation in the complaint, intended to be controverted by the defendant; or 
3. A general denial of every allegation in the complaint; or
4. A statement, in ordinary and concise language without repetition, of any new matter constituting a defense to the cause of action stated in the complaint; or
5. A statement in ordinary and concise language without repetition, of any new matter constituting a counterclaim; and
6. A demand of the relief to which the defendant supposes himself entitled, if any beyond the ordinary judgment to go hence without day. If the recovery of money be demanded the amount thereof shall be stated.

SEC. 207. Where the answer contains any of the matters enumerated in article 203, it shall distinctly state the facts constituting such defense.

SEC. 208. Where the answer contains any of the following allegations they shall be disregarded unless supported by affidavit:
1. Any allegation contained in the first, second, third, fourth or sixth subdivisions of article 203. 
2. A denial of the execution, by himself or by his authority, of any instrument in writing alleged to have been executed by him. 
3. A denial of partnership as alleged in the complaint, whether the same be on the part of the plaintiff or defendant.

SEC. 209. The counterclaim mentioned in article 206 must be one existing in favor of the defendant and against a plaintiff, between whom a several judgment might be had in the suit, and arising out of one of the following causes of action:
1. A cause of action arising out of the contract or transaction set forth in the complaint as the foundation of the plaintiff’s claims; or
2. A cause of action connected with the subject of the main suit.
3. A cause of action which is necessarily connected with the main suit, or incident to the same.
4. A cause of action similar in its nature but they need not be of the same degree to that of the plaintiff.
5. In a suit arising on contract, any other cause of action arising on contract. 
6. Where the plaintiff is a non-resident of this state, transient person or foreign corporation, any cause of action whatsoever, which the defendant may have against the plaintiff. 

SEC. 210. The defendant may set forth by the answer, as many defenses and counterclaims as he may have, whether they be such as have been heretofore denominated legal or equitable or both.

SEC. 211. If the defendant omit to set up a counterclaim which he has when the suit is commenced, or if he withdraw the same, he cannot recover costs against the plaintiff in any subsequent suit thereon; but this article shall not apply to causes of action which are stricken out of the answer, as provided in article 212, not to counterclaims which were not property pleadable in the former suit. 

SEC. 212. Where a new party is necessary to a final decision of a counterclaim, the court may either permit such party to be made by a citation, or may direct he counterclaim to be stricken out of the answer, and made the subject of a separate suit. But where, owing to the insolvency or non residence of the plaintiff or other cause, the defendant will be in danger of losing his claim, it shall not be stricken out.

SEC. 213. The court, at any time before the argument of the cause to the jury, on motion of the defendant, may allow a counterclaim to be withdrawn, and the same may become the subject of another suit.

SEC. 214. Where a counterclaim is stricken out or withdrawn on motion of either party, to be made at the time of such striking out or withdrawal, a suit on such counterclaim shall be docketed and proceeded in as in like cases after process served; and the court shall direct the time and manner of pleading therein. 

SEC. 215. When cross-demands which arise on contract, have existed between persons under such circumstances, that if one had brought a suit against the other, a counterclaim could have been set up, neither can be deprived of the benefit thereof, by the assignment of death of the other, but the two demands must be deemed compensated, so far as they are equal to each other. But this article does not apply to assignments of negotiable paper in good faith, for value, before due.

SEC. 216. Sham and irrelevant answers and defenses may be stricken out on motion, and upon such terms as the court may impose, or without terms.

Chapter III. Of the plaintiff’s demurrer and reply.

SEC. 217. Where the facts stated in the answer are not sufficient to constitute a defense, and where an alleged counterclaim is liable on the face thereof, to any of the following objections, the plaintiff may demur:
1. That the facts are not pleadable as a counterclaim in that suit.
2. That there is another suit pending in this state between the same parties for the same cause.
3. That the allegations are so indefinite and uncertain that the precise nature of the charge is not apparent. 
4. That the cause of action is barred by the statute of limitations.
5. That the statement of new matter does not constitute a cause of action. And the plaintiff may demur to one or more defenses or counterclaims and reply to the residue. 

SEC. 218. The demurrer shall distinctly specify wherein the answer is liable to the objections named in the preceding article, or any one or more of them. Unless it do so, it shall be regarded as objecting only on the ground that the facts stated are not sufficient to constitute a cause of action.

SEC. 219. Where the answer contains new matter constituting a defense or counterclaim, the plaintiff, if he do not demur, must reply to such new matter,
1. Any of the objections enumerated in article 217, if such objections be not apparent on the face of the answer; or
2. A specific denial of each allegation of new matter, intended to be controverted by him; or
3. A general denial of every allegation of new matter; or
4. A statement in ordinary and concise language, without repetition, of any new matter which constitutes an avoidance of such new matter in the answer, and fortifies the complaint.

SEC. 220. Where the reply contains any of the matters enumerated in article 217, it shall distinctly state the facts constituting the same.

SEC. 221. Where the reply contains any of the following allegations, they shall be disregarded, unless supported by affidavit:
1. A denial of the execution, by himself or by his authority, of any instrument in writing, alleged to have been executed by him.
2. A denial of partnership as alleged in the answer, where the same be on the part of the plaintiff or defendant. 

SEC. 222. The demurrer or reply to the answer shall be filed on or before the third day of the term; or, where the defendant has leave to answer, on the next day after the day for filing the answer.

SEC. 223. Where the reply is insufficient, the defendant may demur, stating in his demurrer the grounds thereof. 

Chapter IV. Rules of pleading.

SECTION 1. In general.

SEC. 224. Every pleading must be subscribed by the party or his attorney.

SEC. 225. In all cases of more than on distinct cause of action, defense, counterclaim or reply, the same shall be separately stated and numbered, in default whereof every allegation not essential to a single cause of action, or defense shall on motion be stricken out as redundant. 

SEC. 226. In answering or demurring to a petition which contains several causes of action, and in replying or demurring to an answer which contains several defenses or counterclaims, the cause of action or defense to which each answer, demurrer or reply is intended to relate, shall be designated by its proper number.

SEC. 227. The place and time, if known, or about the time if the exact time be not known, where and when each material fact happened or was done, or, where a fact is continuous, the time within which, it happened or was done, shall be stated.

SEC. 228. The mode in which a material fact was done or took place, where it differs from the general mode of such facts, shall be stated. But the allegations shall not be required to be more specific than the evidence. For example, if the defendant have a receipt which acknowledges payment of the claim sued on, it is sufficient for him to plead payment, although the payment may have been made in labor, merchandize or the like. 

SEC. 229. Every material allegation of the complaint, not controverted by the answer, and every material allegation of new matter in the answer, not controverted by the reply, shall for the purposes of the suit be taken as true; but the allegation of new matter in the reply, shall be deemed to be controverted by the adverse party, as upon a direct denial or avoidance. 

SEC. 230. A material allegation is an allegation of fact, which is required by statute to be made, or which could not be stricken out, without rendering the pleading insufficient as a cause of action or ground of defense.

SEC. 231. The facts which are required to be alleged, are the facts to which the law is to be applied in the particular case, as distinguished from mere conclusions of law on the one hand, and mere evidence of the facts on the other.

SEC. 232. If redundant or irrelevant matter, surplusage or tautology be inserted in any pleading, it must, on motion of the adverse party, be stricken out.

SEC. 233. Neither presumptions of law, nor matters of which judicial notice is taken, except private statutes, need to be stated in pleading. 

SEC. 234. The allegations of every pleading shall be liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.

SECTION 2. For pleading certain facts. 

SEC. 235. If the complaint or new matter in an answer or reply be founded on an account or written instrument as evidence of indebtedness, the original account or written instrument, or a copy thereof, must be attached to and filed with the pleading; or, if not so attached and filed, a sufficient reason therefore must be shown in the pleading. 

SEC. 236. In pleading a judgment or other determination of a court or officer of special jurisdiction, it shall not be necessary to state the facts, conferring jurisdiction, but it shall be sufficient to state that such judgment or determination, stating the date thereof, was duly given or made by the particular Court or officer, describing them so as to distinguish them from other similar courts and officers. If such allegation be controverted, the party pleading it must prove the facts conferring jurisdiction on the court or officer. A certified copy of such judgment or determination must be filed with the pleading.

SEC. 237. In pleading the performance of conditions precedent, it shall be sufficient to state that the party duly performed all the conditions on his part; and if such allegation be controverted, the party pleading it must prove the facts showing such performance.

SEC. 238. In pleading a private statute of this state, or a right derived therefrom, it shall be sufficient to refer such statute by its title and the day of its passage; and the court shall thereupon take judicial notice thereof.

Chapter V. Mistakes in pleading, and amendments. 

SEC. 239. No variance between the allegation in a pleading and the proof, shall be deemed material, unless it have actually mislead the adverse party, to his prejudice, in maintaining his suit or defense upon the merits. Whenever it shall be alleged that a party has been so misled, that fact shall be proved to the satisfaction of the court, and in what respect he has been so misled; and thereupon the court shall order the pleading to be amended, upon such terms as shall be just. 

SEC. 240. Where the variance is not material, as provided in the preceding article, the court shall direct an immediate amendment without costs. 

SEC. 241. Where, however, the allegation of the cause of action or defense, to which the proof is directed, is unproved, not in some particulars only, but in its entire scope and meaning, it shall not be deemed a case of variance within the two preceding articles, but a failure of proof. 

SEC. 242. No judgment shall be impaired or deemed erroneous or defective, by reason of any error or defect in the pleadings or proceedings, which does not affect the substantial rights of the adverse party.

SEC. 243. Any pleading may be once amended by the party of course, without costs, and without prejudice to the proceedings already had, at any time before a demurrer thereto shall have been sustained and before the parties shall have announced themselves ready for trial. In such case a copy of the amendment must be delivered to the adverse party or his attorney, except where such party is absent from the county and has not attorney of record.

SEC. 244. No cause shall be delayed by reason of an amendment, except so long as may be required to make up the issues, unless the adverse party show good cause therefore, by affidavit, stating distinctly therein in what respect he has been prejudiced in his preparation for trial, by the amendment. 

SEC. 245. The court, for good cause shown and upon such terms as may be just, must allow an answer or reply to be made, or other act to be done, after the time limited by this act, or by an order enlarge such time.

SEC. 246. Where an amendment or pleading is filed by leave of the court, the adverse party shall have until the next day after the day fixed by law or by the order of the court for the filing of the amendment or pleading, to demur, answer or reply, as the case may be.

SEC. 247. When the plaintiff shall be ignorant of the name of a defendant, such defendant may be designated in any pleading or proceeding, by any name; and when his true name shall be discovered, the pleading or proceeding may be amended accordingly. 

SEC. 248. A demurrer shall be determined without respect to amendments made after the demurrer was filed, unless the amendment expressly confess the demurrer and notice thereof be given to the adverse party or his attorney. 

SEC. 249. Where an amendment does not confess the demurrer or notice thereof is not given, if the demurrer is sustained, and the pleading has been perfected by the amendment, the order sustaining the demurrer shall require the pleading as amended, to be answered or replied to on or before the next day.

SEC. 250. Where an amendment confesses the demurrer and is served on the adverse party or his attorney, unless such adverse party answer or reply to the pleading, as amended on or before the next day after such service, the demurrer shall be deemed to apply to such pleading. 

SEC. 251. Where a demurrer is overruled the court may, if it appear that the same was interposed in good faith, allow the party to answer or reply, upon such terms as may be just. 

SEC. 252. Where a demurrer is sustained and the party has not previously perfected the pleading, the court may allow an amendment upon such terms as may be just.

SEC. 253. Where a demurrer is sustained for the cause mentioned in the seventh subdivision of article 203, the court shall, upon such terms as may be just, on motion to that effect, order the suit to be divided into as many suits as may be necessary to the proper determination of the causes of action stated in the complaint.

SEC. 254. Where a demurrer to a counterclaim is sustained on the ground that the cause of action stated therein is not the proper subject of a counterclaim in that particular suit, the court shall upon such terms as may be just on motion to that effect, order it to be separated from the answer and docketed as a complaint against the plaintiff, to be answered within a time to be fixed by the court. 

SEC. 255. Where a party has leave to amend or to plead, after the decision of a demurrer, the amendment or pleading shall be filed on or before the next day, unless the court order it to be filed sooner, or for cause shown, allow further time. 

SEC. 256. The court must, in furtherance of justice, before or after judgment and on such terms as may be proper, amend any pleading or proceeding, by adding or striking out the name of any party; or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect, or by inserting other allegations material to the case; or, by conforming the pleading or proceeding to the facts proved. 

SEC. 257. The court may at any time within five years after judgment and one year after notice thereof, upon such terms as may be just, relieve a party from a judgment, order or other proceeding taken against him, or in a manner prejudicial to his rights, through his mistake, inadvertence, surprise or excusable neglect, and may supply an omission in any proceeding. But such relief shall not impair the title of any purchaser under such judgment. 

Title VI. Provisional remedies.

Chapter I. Attachments.

SECTION 1. Grounds of attachment.

SEC. 258. The plaintiff may, in a suit for the recovery of money at or after the commencement thereof, have an attachment against the property of the defendant in the cases and upon the grounds herein after stated as a security for the satisfaction of such judgment as may be recovered.
1. When the suit is for a debt or demand arising upon contract, against a defendant or several defendants, who, or some one of whom, is a foreign corporation or a non-resident of the state, or a transient person who cannot be found.
2. Against a person who is about to leave the state and reside beyond its limits.
3. When the defendant is about to remove his property, or a material part thereof, out of this state, not leaving enough to satisfy the plaintiff’s claim. 
4. When the defendant so conceals himself, that a citation cannot be served upon him, and a sufficient proof of this shall be the return of the sheriff or other officer, that the said defendant is not to be found in his county.
5. When the defendant has sold or otherwise disposed of his property, or suffered or permitted it to be sold or disposed of, with the fraudulent intent to cheat, hinder or delay his creditors, or is about to sell or otherwise dispose of his property with such intent.

SEC. 259. In either of the cases mentioned in the third and fifth subdivisions of the preceding article, the plaintiff may institute suit and have an attachment against the property of his debtor before the debt is due; but final judgment shall not be rendered against the defendant before the maturity of the debt. 

SECTION 2. How an attachment is obtained.

SEC. 260. A writ of attachment shall be issued by the clerk in every case in the two preceding articles mentioned, when there is filed in his office an affidavit of the plaintiff, his agent or attorney, stating:
1. The nature of the plaintiff’s claim.
2. That it is just.
3. The amount which the affiant believes the plaintiff ought to recover.
4. The existence in the suit, of some one or more of the grounds for an attachment, mentioned in the two preceding articles. But the affidavit required by this subdivision shall be unnecessary in the case mentioned in subdivision four, of article 258, provided the return of the officer be made as therein prescribed. 

SEC. 261. The writ of attachment shall not issue, until a bond shall be executed, payable to the defendant by one or more sufficient sureties of the plaintiff, in double the amount of the plaintiff’s claim, conditioned the plaintiff shall pay the defendant all damages which he may sustain by reason of the attachment, in case it be decided it was wrongfully obtained.

SEC. 262. When such affidavit and bond are filed, it shall be the duty of the Clerk to issue a writ of attachment, against the property of the debtor, subject to execution, wherever the same may be found, or so much thereof as shall be sufficient to satisfy the plaintiff’s claim, the amount of which shall be stated in the writ, and the probably costs of the suit not exceeding fifty dollars.

SEC. 263. Several writs of attachment may, at the option of the plaintiff be issued at the same time or in succession, and sent to different counties. But the costs of one only shall be taxed, unless otherwise directed by the Court.

SECTION 3. Execution and Return of attachment.

SEC. 264 When there are several writs of attachment against the same defendant, they shall be executed in the order in which they are received by the Sheriff.

SEC. 265. The writ of attachment shall be executed without delay, in the following manner:
1. Upon real property, by leaving with the occupant thereof, or if there be no occupant, by posting up in a conspicuous play thereon, a copy of the writ, with a notice thereon, designating the property attached.
2. Upon personal property capable of manual delivery, by taking it into his custody and holding it until replevied or disposed of by the order of the Court or of the Judge.
3. Upon other personal property, by delivering a copy of the writ, with the notice of specifying the property attached, to the person in possession of, or holding the same.
4. Where a debt is to be attached, a copy of the writ shall be delivered to the person owing it; where stock in a corporation or property held, or a debt or demand owing by it, is to be attached, a copy of the writ must be delivered to the chief officer or managing agent thereof, and the person or corporation must be cited to answer as garnishee in the suit. The officer shall deliver copies, to, and cite such persons as garnishees as the plaintiff may direct.

SEC. 266. It shall be the duty of every person mentioned in the fourth subdivision of the preceding Article, to whom the Sheriff may apply therefor, to furnish him with a certificate of the number of shares of the defendant, in the stock of the corporation, or a description of the property held by such corporation or person belonging to or held for the defendant, or the amount of the debt owing to the defendant by such corporation or person, whether due or not; and a failure to perform this duty may be punished by the Court as a contempt. 

SEC. 267. When the property to be attached is a fund in Court, the execution of the writ of attachment shall be by leaving with the Clerk of the Court a copy thereof, with a notice specifying the fund; and where several writs of the attachment are executed upon such fund on the same day, they shall be satisfied out of a ratably.

SEC. 268. The Sheriff in executing a writ of attachment upon personal property, held by the defendant as a part owner with another person, shall not take possession of such property until there has been executed a bond to such other person, by one or more sufficient securities of the plaintiff, to the effect that he shall pay to such person the damages he may sustain by the wrongful suing out the writ, not exceed double the amount of the value of the interest of such person in the property so taken.

SEC. 269. The Sheriff shall return upon every writ of attachment, what he has done under it. The return must show the property attached, the time when it was attached, and the disposition made of it; when garnishees are cited, their names and time at which each was cited, must be stated; and where real property is attached, it shall be described with sufficient certainty to identify it. He shall return with the writ all bonds taken under it.

SECTION 4. Disposition of Attached Property.

SEC. 270. It shall be the duty of the Sheriff to attach, and safely keep any such property of the defendant, until final judgment unless the same be previously replevied.

SEC. 271. The defendant shall have the right to replevy the property at any time within twenty days after it has been attached. But should he fail so to do, the plaintiff shall then have the right to replevy the same.

SEC. 272. Either party replevying shall cause a bond to be executed, payable to the other, with one or more sufficient sureties, to be approved by the Sheriff, in double the amount of the value of the property attached, conditioned for the faithful administration and forthcoming of the property to abide the result of the suit. 

SEC. 273. In all other cases in which the writ of attachment has issued, if the defendant, at any time before judgment, causes a bond ot be executed to the plaintiff by one or more sufficient sureties to be approved by the Sheriff, to the effect that the defendant shall perform the judgment of the Court, which shall be rendered in the suit, the attachment shall be discharged, and restitution made of the property taken under it or the proceeds thereof. 

SEC. 274. If the property be not replevied, the Court and in vacation the Judge, shall make proper orders for the preservation and use thereof during the pendency of the suit, and for bringing into Court or securing the debts and funds attached.

SEC. 275. A sale of the property attached, other than real estate or slaves, if the same be not replevied, may be ordered by the Court, or in vacation by the Judge, when by reason of its perishable nature or the cost of keeping it, a sale would be for the benefit or the parties.

SEC. 276. The sale shall be public, after advertisement and shall be made in such manner and upon such credit as the Court or Judge, having regard to the probably duration of the suit, may direct. The Sheriff making such sale, shall take bond with one or more sufficient sureties, for the payment of the purchase money.

SEC. 277. The proceeds when collected by the Sheriff, together with the money received from garnishees shall be held and paid over by him, under the same requirements and responsibilities of himself and his sureties, as are prescribed in respect to money collected under execution.

SEC. 278. The Sheriff shall be allowed by the Court, the necessary expense of keeping the attached property

SEC. 279. The execution of the writ on any property demand or right of the defendant, liable thereto, shall create a lien thereon in favor the plaintiff. But such lieu may be discharged by the execution of a forthcoming bond as prescribed in any Article of this Chapter.

SEC. 280. When a writ of attachment has been levied upon moveable property, that may be claimed by any person other than the defendant in the attachment, like proceedings shall be had to try the right thereof, as are prescribed for the trial of the right to such property when levied on under execution.

SEC. 281. The Sheriff may deliver any property attached to the person in whose possession it was found, upon the execution in his presence of a bond to the plaintiff by such person, for a sum equal to double the value of such property, with one or more sufficient sureties, to the effect that the defendant shall perform the judgement of the Court in the suit, or that the property or its value shall be forthcoming and subject to the order of the Court for the satisfaction of said judgment. In any proceeding on said bond it shall not be defence that the property was not subject to the attachment.

SECTION 5. Of Garnishees.

SEC. 282. Each garnishee summoned shall appear; when he resides in the county in which the suit is pending, the appearance must be in person ; when the garnishee resides in any other than said county, his appearance may be by affidavit made before some officer authorized to take depositions in the county in which the garnishee may reside, disclosing fairly the amount owing by him to the defendant, whether due or not, and the property of the defendant in the possession or under the control of the garnishee; and in case of a corporation, any shares of stock therein held by or for the benefit of the defendant, at or after the service of the writ of attachment.

SEC. 283. When a garnishee, or officer of a corporation summoned as a garnishee, appears in person, he may be examined on oath; and if it appear that at or after the service of the writ upon him, he or the corporation was possessed of any property of the defendant, or was indebted to him, the Court may order the delivery of such property, and the judgment or security for the payment of the amount owing by the garnishee, into the Court, or to such person as it may direct, who shall give bond with security for the same.

SEC. 284. Either the plaintiff or the defendant in the attachment may controvert the answer of a garnishee.

SEC. 285. The plaintiff wishing to controvert said answer, may do so by making the affidavit that he believes the same to be incorrect whereupon if the garnishee or officer cited as a garnishee, resides in the county in which the original suit was instituted, an issue shall be formed under the direction of the Court, and tried as in other suits.—When the plaintiff is absent from the county, and affidavit may be made by his agent or attorney.

SEC. 286. But if the garnishee is a resident of another County, the plaintiff may file a copy of the judgment in the original suit, together with a copy of said controverted answer and oath, in any Court of the county in which the garnishee resides, that has jurisdiction of the amount; whereupon it shall be the duty of the Justice of the Peace or of the Clerk of the Court in whose office such copies are filed, to docket the same as an original suit, and issue citation against the garnishee as in other cases. 

SEC. 287. Upon the return of such citation served an issue shall be formed under the direction of the Court or Justice of the Peace, as the case may be, and tried in like manner as the same might have been tired in the Court of the county in which the original suit was instituted, had the garnishee resided therein.

SEC. 288. When such garnishee or officer shall be duly cited, and shall fail to appear and answer on oath, as required by the provisions of this Chapter, before final judgment shall be rendered against the defendant in the attachment, it shall be lawful for the Court to render as interlocutory judgment by default against the garnishee, or against said corporation for the sum for which judgment has been rendered against the defendant in said attachment.

SEC. 289. After such interlocutory judgment has been rendered, the said garnishee or officer shall be cited to appear on or before the second day of the next term of the Court, and show cause, if any he can, why said judgment shall not be made final. The citation shall contain a copy of the interlocutory judgment, and shall be served as citations in original suits. And if such garnishee or officer shall fail to appear and answer, or show such cause on or before the said second day of said term, such interlocutory judgment shall be made final. 

SEC. 290. The Court may permit the garnishee to retain the property or the amount of wing, upon the execution of a bond with one or more sufficient sureties, to the effect that the amount shall be paid, or property shall be forthcoming as the Court may direct. 

SEC. 291. A garnishee may pay the money he owes the defendant to the Sheriff, or he may pay it into the hands of the Court; and he shall be discharged from liability to the defendant for any money so paid, not exceeding the plaintiff’s claim.

SEC. 292. When judgment is rendered against a garnishee it shall be his duty, within ten days thereafter, to pay the money or deliver the effects for which the judgment was rendered, to the officer authorized to receive the same.

SEC. 293. The garnishee shall not be subjected to the costs beyond those caused by the resistance of the claim against him; and if he discloses the property of the defendant in his hands, or the true amount owing by him, and delivers or pays the same according to the order of the Court, he shall be allowed his costs.

SECTION 5. Miscellaneous Provisions respecting attachments

SEC. 294. In any case in which a writ of attachment has been issued because the defendant conceals himself or cannot be found, such writ shall, upon motion, be vacated, and the property released at any time before the trial, where the defendant has by himself or by his attorney, appeared and answered; and not otherwise.

SEC. 295. At any time before the sale of any attached property, or before the payment to the plaintiff of the proceeds thereof or of any attached debts, any person may present his complaint verified by oath, to the Court or to the Judge in vacation, denying that the property was liable to the attachment, and stating a claim to the property or to an interest in or lieu on it, and setting forth the facts upon which such claim is founded. If verdict and judgment be for the claimant, the Court shall make such order as may be necessary to protect his rights. 

SEC. 296. The defendant may, at any time before judgment, after reasonable notice to the plaintiff, move the court for additional security on the part of the plaintiff, and if the Court is satisfied that the surety in the plaintiff’s bond has removed from this State, or is not sufficient for the amount thereof, it may vacate the order of attachment and direct the restitution of the property taken under it, unless in a reasonable time, to be fixed by the Court, sufficient security is given by the plaintiff.

SEC. 297. At any time before judgment, the defendant may move to discharge the attachment, on the ground that it was obtained by false suggestions, or without sufficient cause, after having first given to the plaintiff a reasonable notice of his intention.

SEC. 298. The motion may be tried by the Court, upon the papers and evidence in the case, and upon the affidavits that may be introduced by the respective parties. If the motion is sustained, the attachment shall be discharged.

SEC. 299. If judgment be rendered in the suit for the defendant, the attachment shall be discharged, and the property attached, or the proceeds, shall be returned to him; or if the property shall have been replevied by the plaintiff or other person, the defendant shall have judgment on the bond against the principal and sureties therein, for a recovery of the property or its value. 

SEC. 300. If judgment be rendered for the plaintiff and the same be not satisfied within ten days, it may be collected by execution in like manner as other judgments But in satisfaction of such judgment there shall be applied, 
1. Money arising from the sale of perishable property.
2. The proceeds of debts and funds in the hands of garnishees.

SEC. 301. Where the judgment is rendered for the plaintiff, and the property or any part thereof has been replevied by the defendant, or bond has bene given by him under Article 273, such judgment shall include the sureties in the bond. But the judgment against the sureties is a forthcoming bond, shall not exceed the value of the property, nor the amount of the bond.

SEC. 302. Where judgment is rendered for the plaintiff, and the property or part thereof has been replevied by a person other than the defendant, judgment shall be rendered against principal. And surety in the bond, for the recovery of the property replevied or its value, unless such person shall have made good his claim to the property replevied by him.

SEC. 303. If there be a surplus of property or debts attached, it shall be returned to the defendant. 

SEC. 304.  A writ of sequestration may be obtained at any time before judgment.
1.  In a suit to recover the possession of personal property or its value.
2.  In a suit by a vendor to vacate a fraudulent purchase of personal property.
3.  In a suit by a creditor to subject to his claim any specific personal property or fund on which he has preference or lien, when it appears by affidavit that such property or fund is in danger of being lost, removed or materially injured; or that such property or fund is insufficient to discharge the claim.
4.  In a suit to subject any real property to a lien, when it appears by affidavit that such property is insufficient to discharge such lien
5.  In suits between partners or other persons interested in any property or fund.
6.  In suits between husband and wife for separation or partition of the common property.
7.  In a suit to recover real property from which the plaintiff has been dispossessed by force, or violence, or where a tenant holds over.

SEC. 305. A writ of sequestration may be obtained under the first clause of subdivision three in Article 304, although the claim be not yet due.

SEC. 306.  Where a sequestration is demanded, the complaint must be verified by the affidavit of the party, or other person having a knowledge of the facts; and, in addition thereto in the cases mentioned in subdivisions three, four, and seven of Article 304, an affidavit of the existence of the causes mentioned in those subdivisions must be filed.

SEC. 307.  The property to be sequestered shall be particularly described in the complaint, and its value stated and where several articles, the separate value of each, except where the suit is in the nature of an action of account, or the plaintiff has no meals of stating a particular description and separate value, in which cases the statement of the description and value shall be as particular as the nature of the circumstances permits; instead of the full value of real property, the complaint shall state its yearly value.

SEC. 308. A writ of sequestration cannot be obtained in a suit to recover property which is in possession of an officer under a writ of attachment, execution, or other writ of sequestration; nor to recover property which is in possession of an officer, under a seizure for a tax or fine against the plaintiff.

SEC. 309.  Writs of sequestration may be issued by the Judges of District Courts, and by Clerks of said Courts.

SEC. 310.  A writ of sequestration shall not issue, until the plaintiff shall have caused to be filed a bond, signed by one or more sureties, to be approved by the Clerk, to the following effect:
1.  It shall state the title of the suit, and the Court in which it is pending.
2.  It shall recite that a sequestration has been demanded by the plaintiff, and describe the property to be sequestered, stating the aggregate value thereof, as described and stated in the complaint (if real property, stating four times the yearly value thereof, and say “for four years.”)
3.  It shall state the name and residence of the surety or sureties, and that they acknowledge themselves bound in the sum of double the value previously stated, for the faithful administration of the property by the plaintiff, in case it may be delivered to him, and for the forthcoming thereof to abide the judgment of the Court in the suit, and for the payment of such sum as may be adjudged against the plaintiff, for the wrongful suing out of the sequestration, or for the use, hire, or profits of said property.
4.  It shall be dated and signed by the surety or sureties, and approved by the Clerk.

A bond which contains the substance of the above provisions shall not be void for want of form.

SEC. 311.  The writ of sequestration shall be issued to Sheriff of the county in which the complaint states the property to be, and shall be sufficient if it
1. Run in the name of “The State of Texas”
2. Recite the pendency of the suit, and the demand for the writ of sequestration.
3.  Contain a description of the property and its value, as stated in the complaint.
4. Command the Sheriff to take the property or so much thereof as may be found in his county, and deliver it to the plaintiff, unless the defendant, within twenty days from the seizure give a bond, signed by one or more sureties to be approved by the Sheriff, in the (same amount as the plaintiff’s bond,) and upon the same condition as provided in Article 310 for the bond of the plaintiff.
5.  Be tested by the Clerk, and the seal of the Court.

A writ which contains the substance of the above provisions, shall not be void for want of form.

SEC. 312.  A certified copy of the bond shall accompany the writ, and shall be delivered together with a copy of the writ to the person in whose possession the property is found; and if the property be found not apparently in the possession of any one, the said copies shall be delivered to the defendant, if he can be found.

SEC. 313.  The defendant shall be entitled to have the property restored to him, if he cause to be delivered to the Sheriff, within twenty days after the seizure thereof, a bond signed by one or more sureties, to be approved of by the Sheriff, in the amount and to the effect indicated in the writ.

SEC. 314.  Where the suit is in the nature of an action of account, or the property is of such a nature or so scattered that it is inconvenient to obtain an actual delivery thereof by the Sheriff, the Sheriff shall endorse on the back of the writ of sequestration a notice as follows:

	The defendant is hereby notified that unless he give the bond herein indicated on or before the day of (allowing twenty days), this writ will be assigned to the plaintiff, and will authorize him to sue for and recover the property therein described.
									{Sheriff’s official signature}

	And the Sheriff shall deliver a copy of the writ with said endorsement thereon, to the defendant in person, if he can be found, and if not, to some person in possession of the property or part thereof, under such defendant.

SEC. 315.  If the defendant fail to give to the Sheriff the forthcoming bond as provided in the proceeding Article, within the time prescribed, he shall immediately return the facts whereupon the Clerk shall issue another writ of sequestration, with the Sheriff’s return endorsed, which writ the Clerk shall deliver to the plaintiff or his attorney, and the same shall authorize the plaintiff to do every act and maintain any suit respecting the property, which either party or both parties jointly could do or maintain, except to sell or encumber such property; if it be personal property and perishable in its nature, or liable to deteriorate or materially diminish in value from time, the plaintiff shall be authorized by such writ, as part of his duty faithfully to administer the property, to sell the same to the best advantage.

SEC. 316.  Where property is in the possession of one party, under a writ of sequestration, the Court may order the adverse party to deliver ever any books, claims, or accounts, included in the scope of the sequestration, which may be in his possession or under his control, and may enforce the same by imprisonment in the county jail, until the order is complied with.  But this Article shall not authorize an order for the delivery of books which contain entries of matters not within the scope of the sequestration.

SEC. 317.  A writ of sequestration may be directed to any other county than the one in which the suit is brought, and several writs may issue at the same time, or successively at the option of the plaintiff; but only one of them shall be taxed in the costs, unless otherwise ordered by the Court.

SEC. 318.  The Sheriff or other officer shall execute a writ of sequestration, and return it immediately, stating in his return, how he has executed it; and he shall, at the same time, return any bond which he may have received from the defendant.

SEC. 319.  When the Sheriff or other officer shall have taken property, he shall keep it in a secure place, and if the defendant do not demand its restoration, and give the forthcoming bond within twenty days after the seizure, he shall deliver it to the plaintiff, upon receiving his lawful fees for taking, and his necessary expenses for keeping the same.

SEC. 320.  The plaintiff to whom property is delivered, or the defendant to whom the same is restored, is in the nature of a receiver, subject to the order of the Court, and bound faithfully, to administer the property, and to that end may maintain any suit which either party or both parties jointly could maintain; do any act which either party or both parties jointly could do.  The power to administer includes the power to sell personal property which is perishable in its nature, or liable to deteriorate or materially diminish in value from time; the party and his sureties being responsible for any failure to make such sale to the best advantage.

SEC. 321.  The sureties in any bond, taken in pursuance of the provisions of this Chapter, shall be deemed to be in Court, to abide any order or judgment thereof; and if the right be with the adverse party, the final judgment shall be rendered against them and the principal; but judgment shall not be rendered against the sureties for an amount exceeding that stated in the bond, nor exceeding the value of the property, and what the value of the use and occupation thereof would be, if properly administered.

Chapter III. Injunction

SECTION 1. In general.

SEC. 322.  Where it shall appear by the complaint or answer, supported by affidavit, that a party is entitled to the relief demanded, and such relief or any part thereof consist in the restraining the commission or continuance of some act, the commission or continuance of which during the litigation would produce injury to such party; or 
2.  Where, during a litigation, it shall appear by affidavit that a party is doing, or threatens, or is about to do, or procuring, or suffering some act to be done in violation of the other’s rights respecting the subject of the proceeding, and tending to render the judgment ineffectual; or 
3.  Where, during the pendency of a suit, it shall appear by affidavit, that the defendant threatens or is about to remove or dispose of his property with intent to hinder, delay or defraud his creditors.

In either of said cases a temporary injunction may be allowed, to restrain such act.

SEC. 323.  The injunction may be allowed by the Judge in vacation, by an order endorsed on the complaint before it is filed, or after suit commenced, by order endorsed on the affidavit or one of them.

SEC. 324.  An injunction shall not be allowed after the defendant shall have answered, unless upon notice, or upon an order to show cause; but in such case the party may be restrained, until the decision of the Court or Judge, granting or refusing the injunction.

SEC. 325.  An injunction shall not be allowed, unless the State be the plaintiff, without requiring the applicant to execute a bond with one or more sufficient sureties to be approved by the Clerk, to indemnify the adverse party against all damages that my be occasioned by such injunction, if the court shall finally decide that the applicant was not entitled thereto; which amount shall be fixed by the Judge.

SEC. 326.  If the injuction be to restrain the collection of money or the delivery of real or personal property, on execution, the amount of the bond shall be sufficient to cover the amount enjoined and interest thereon for two years; or the value of the property or the use thereof for two years, if it be personal; or the rent thereof for the same period, if it be real property.

SEC. 327.  Injunctions connected with the proceedings in a suit pending, or execution on a judgment, or to stay the same, shall be returned to and tried in the District Court of the County where the suit is pending or the judgment was rendered.

SEC. 328.  All injunctions granted before final judgment, shall be subject to the further order of the Court.

SEC. 329.  If the Judge deem it proper that nay party be affected by the injunction, should be heard before allowing it, he may direct a reasonable notice be given to such party, to attend and show cause against it, at a specified time and place; and may, in the meantime, restrain such party.

SEC. 330.  On the hearing of an application for an injunction of which notice has been given, or for the vacation or modification or an injunction, each party may read affidavits.  Affidavits so read shall be filed with the papers of the case.

SEC. 331.  No injunction shall be allowed to stay any judgment or proceeding, except for so much of the recovery or cause of action as the party applying for the injunction, shall show himself equitably entitled to be relieved against.

SEC. 332.  An injunction or preliminary order of restraint binds the party from the time he is informed thereof.

SEC. 333.  Where it does not appear from the order of the Judge or Court, or from all the proceedings, that the party enjoined had notice of the granting of the injunction, the Clerk, after bond filed and approved, shall issue the injunction; if such notice appear, the order itself operates as an injunction.

SEC. 334.  The injunction shall be served by the Sheriff of any county, where the party to be enjoined can be found, by delivering to such party in person a copy of the same and exhibiting to him the original, if requested to do so.

SEC. 335.  Disobedience of an injunction may be punished by the Court, or by the Judge thereof, as a contempt.  An attachment may be issued by the Court or Judge, upon the production of evidence by affidavit, of the breach of the injunction, against the party committing the same.  And unless he purges the contempt, if in vacation, the Judge may commit him to jail until the sitting of the Court, or take a bond with security for his appearance to answer for the contempt at the next term of the court, and in the meantime to obey the injunction.

SEC. 336.  An injunction restrains the councillors, attorneys and agents of the party, as well as the party himself.

SECTION 2. Dissolution of Injunction

SEC. 337.  If the injunction be allowed without notice, the party affected thereby, at any time before the trial, may apply, upon notice, to the Judge of the Court in which the suit is pending, to vacate of modify the same.  The application may be made upon the complaint or answer or affidavits, upon which the injunction was allowed, or upon affidavits on the part of the party enjoined, with or without answer; and where the injunction is allowed upon notice, and the adverse party failed to appear and contest its allowance, such application may be made at a term of the Court, at any time before the trail.  The Judge or Court shall not be bound to take the answer as true.

SEC. 338.  The motion to dissolve or modify the injunction may be postponed to a subsequent day, or to the next term, where the Judge or Court is satisfied that, under the circumstances of the case, the delay is proper.  When delay is asked in order to obtain the testimony of a witness, it must appear by affidavit what facts the witness is expected to prove, that the affiant believes such testimony to be true, and that it could not have been obtained by due diligence.

SEC. 339.  After hearing the motion, the Court or Judge shall overrule the same, or dissolve or modify the injunction, according to the right of the case.

SEC. 340.  Only one motion to dissolve or modify an injunction upon the whole case shall be allowed.

SECTION 2. Damages and Final Judgment

SEC. 341.  Upon the final dissolution of an injunction, either in whole or in part, where the collection of which was wrongfully enjoined, in addition to the interest, if any, shall be included in the judgment.

SEC. 342.  Upon the final dissolution of an injunction, either in whole or in part, where other than the collection of money is enjoined, the damages shall be assessed by a jury.   Where the delivery of property has been delayed by the injunction, the value of the use, rent or hire thereof shall be the measure of damages, in absence or special circumstances to increase the damages.

SEC. 343.  Where an injunction has been allowed, and afterwards dissolved, the final judgment, so far as the same is a judgment for the recovery of money, and does not exceed the amount stipulated in the bond, shall be rendered against the sureties of the party, according to the tenor of the bond, at the same time that it is rendered against the party himself.

SEC. 344.  Where an injunction restraining the collection of a debt is dissolved in whole or in part, judgment shall be rendered against the plaintiff and his sureties for the amount for which it may be dissolved, and the damages assessed.

SEC. 345.  Where the injunction is perpetuated or a perpetual injunction allowed on a final hearing or trial, the party enjoined, his councilors, attorneys and agents, shall take notice thereof, and be bound by the entry to that effect the same as if an injunction had been issued and served.

Chapter IV.  Receiver.

SEC. 346.  A received may be appointed by the Court or Judge, in the cases wherein it is provided in Article 304 that a writ of sequestration might issue, provided the following facts concur:
1.  That the apparent right in the suit is with the applicant.
2.  That it appear that the property is in the possession of an adverse party, and the property or its rents and profits are in danger of being lost, or materially injured or impaired, 
3.  That it be made to appear that the applicant cannot find surety to obtain a writ of sequestration.

SEC. 347.  A receiver may also be appointed by the Court or Judge, in the following cases:
1.	After judgment, to carry the judgment into effect.
2.	After judgment, to preserve the property during the pendency of an appeal, or when an execution has been returned unsatisfied, and the judgment debtor refuses to apply his property in satisfaction of the judgment.
3.	Where a corporation has been dissolved, or has forfeited its corporate rights, or being a private corporation, is insolvent, or in imminent danger of insolvency.

SEC. 348.  Before appointing a receiver, the Court or Judge shall require reasonable notice of the application to be given to the adverse party, except under circumstances demanding immediate action, to be made to appear upon the papers upon which the application is made; and in the meantime may restrain such adverse party from removing secreting, converting, or otherwise disposing of the property to the injury of the applicant.

SEC. 349.  The order for the appointment of a receiver shall fix the amount of the obligation to be filed by him.

SEC. 350.  The adverse party may retain or demand a restoration of the property within twenty days after notice of the appointment of a receiver, upon filing a bond signed by one or more sureties, to be approved by the Clerk, in the amount fixed for the bond of the receiver, in substance the same as the obligation required in case of a demand for the restoration of property taken by writ of sequestration.  But this Article does not apply where a receiver is appointed under Article 347.

SEC. 351.  No party, or attorney, or person interested in a suit, shall be appointed receiver therein.

SEC.  Before entering upon his duties, the receiver must be sworn to perform them faithfully, and file a bond with one or more sureties, to be approved of by the Clerk of the Court, in double the amount of the value of the property, to be received by him, to the effect that he will faithfully discharge the duties of receiver in the suit, and obey the orders of the Court therein.

SEC. 353.  When the bond of the receiver has been approved, and he has taken the oath faithfully to perform his duties, which oath shall be endorsed on the bond, the Clerk shall deliver to him a certificate of his appointment, which shall contain a description of the property.

SEC. 354.  The receiver shall have power, subject to the control of the Court, to bring and defend suits, to take and keep possession of the property, to receive rents, to collect debts, and generally to do such acts respecting the property as may be authorized by the Court.

SEC. 355.  When it is admitted by the pleading or examination of a party, that he has in his possession or under his control, any money or other thing capable of delivery, which, being the subject of the litigation, is held by him as trustee for another party, or which belongs or is due to another party, the Court may order the same to be deposited in Court, or to be delivered to such party with or without security, subject to the further direction of the Court.

SEC. 356.  Whenever in the exercise of its authority, a Court shall have ordered the deposit, or delivery or conveyance of money or other property, and the order is disobeyed, the Court, besides punishing the disobedience, as for contempt, may make an order requiring the Sheriff to take the money or property, and deposit or deliver or convey it in conformity with the directions of the Court.

SEC. 357.  Money deposited or paid into Court in a suit, shall not be loaned out, unless with the consent of all parties having an interest in or making claim to the same.

Title VII.  Of the Trial and Judgment.
Chapter I.  Issue.

SEC. 358.  Issues arise on the pleadings, where a fact or conclusion of law is maintained by one party and converted by the other.  They are of two kinds:
1.	Of law.
2.	Of fact.
SEC. 359.  An issue of law arises, upon a demurrer to the complaint, answer or reply.

SEC. 360.  An issue of tact arises – 
1.	Upon an allegation in the complaint, denied by the answer.
2.	Upon new matter presented in the answer, and denied by the reply.
3.	Upon new matter in the reply, which shall be considered as controverted by the defendant without further pleading, unless he demur thereto.
	An issue cannot arise upon an allegation which does not present a material fact.

SEC. 361.  Issues both of law and of fact may arise upon different parts of the pleadings in the same suit.

Chapter II.  Trial
SECTION 1. General provisions.

SEC. 362.  A trial is the judicial examination of the issues, whether of law or fact.

SEC. 363.  Issues of law must be tried by the Court, and before the trial of issues of fact.

SEC. 364.  On a judgment for the plaintiff, upon an issue of law, he may proceed in the manner prescribed in Article 444 upon the failure of the defendant to answer where the citation was personally served.

SEC. 365.  On a judgment for the defendant upon an issue of law, if the taking of an account, or the proof of any fact be necessary to enable the Court to complete the judgment, the cause shall be submitted to a jury under the direction of the Court.

SEC. 366.  Issues of fact must be tried by a jury, unless a jury trial be waived.

SEC. 367.  The trial in each suit shall be in the order in which it stands upon the docket, unless otherwise directed by the Court, with the consent of the parties or their attorneys.

SEC. 368.  When a cause is called for trial, either party in the absence of the adverse party, unless the Court for good cause otherwise direct, may proceed with his case, and take a dismissal of the complaint, or a verdict of judgment, as the case may require.

SEC. 369.  A separate trial between a plaintiff and any of the several defendants, or between an intervener and either of the original parties, may be allowed by the Court, whenever, in its opinion, justice will be thereby promoted.

SEC. 370.  Where there are several causes of action or counterclaims and they do not arise out of the same transaction or out of different transactions connected with the same subject of action, or where the sole cause of action and counterclaim do not arise out of the same transaction, or out of different transactions connected with the same subject of action, separate trials of the distinct and disconnected issues may be allowed by the Court, whenever, in its opinion, justice will be promoted thereby; but only one jury shall be impanneled and one judgment rendered.

SECTION 2. Continuance.

SEC. 371.  Suits shall be called for trial in the order in which they stand upon the docket.

SEC. 372.  Every suit shall be tried when it is called for trial, unless the trial thereof be postponed.

SEC. 373.  The trial of a suit may be postponed
1.	To a future day in the term.
2.	To the next regular term.
3.	Or the suit may be placed at the end of the docket, to be called for the trial again, if it should be reached.

SEC. 374.  A suit must be placed at the end of the docket – 
1.	Where the parties request it.
2.	Where one party is absent, and the other requests it.
3.	Where both parties are absent.

SEC. 375.  The trial shall be postponed until the next regular term – 
1.	By consent of the parties.
2.	Where the suit has been placed at the end of the docket, and is again called and both parties are absent, or one party is absent and the other requests it.
3.	Where either party shows sufficient cause for such postponement.

SEC. 376.  Where the cause of such postponement is the absence of evidence, it must appear by the affidavit of the party – 
1.	What the evidence is, and whether oral or written.
2.	That the evidence, or other evidence equivalent thereto and known to affiant, cannot be obtained in time for trial at that term.
3.	The name and residence of the witness, if the evidence be oral.
4.	That due diligence has been used to procure the evidence, the diligence being stated in the affidavit; or that the party has been taken by surprise by some act or proceeding of the Court or adverse party, whereby such evidence became material, after it was too late to obtain the same; or that the evidence could not have been procured by the use of due diligence, in time for trial at that term; or where the failure to use due diligence to obtain the evidence, is satisfactorily explained; or where the evidence is absent by accident which ordinary prudence could not have guarded against.
5.	That it is possible the evidence may be obtained in time for trial at the next term of the Court.
	The affidavit may be made by the agent or attorney, in cases where the facts are stated to be within his personal knowledge.

SEC. 377.  The trial shall not be postponed on account of the absence of evidence, if the adverse party will admit for the occasion, the facts which such evidence fairly tends to prove.

SEC. 378.  The trial may be postponed to a future day in the same term – 
1.  By consent of both parties.
2.  Where it appears from the application for a postponement, that the party can be ready for the trial by that day.

SEC. 379.  It shall be no cause for the postponement of a trial of issues of law, that a party is not prepared to try the issues of fact already joined or to be joined but all issues of law shall be tried when the suit is called for trial.

SECTION 3. Trial by Jury.

SEC. 380.  When the jury have been sworn, the trial shall proceed in the following order, unless the Court, for special reasons, which shall be stated in the record, may otherwise direct: 
1.	The plaintiff must briefly state his claim, and my briefly state the evidence by which he expects to prove it.
2.	The defendant must then briefly state his defence, and may briefly state the evidence he expects to offer in support of it.
3.	The intervener, if there be one, must briefly state his claim, and may briefly state the evidence by which he expects to prove it.
4.	The party plaintiff or defendant on whom rests the burthen of proof in the whole suit, must first produce his evidence; the adverse party will then produce his evidence; after which the intervener, if any will produce his evidence.
5.	The parties will then be confined to rebutting evidence, unless the Court, for reasons in furtherance of justice, permit them to them to other evidence in their original case.
6.	 When the evidence is concluded, either party may request instructions to the jury on points of law, which shall be given or refused.  Such instructions shall be written out by the party, before they are requested; the Judge shall note thereon which are given and which refused, and sign his name thereto; and they shall be filed as part of the record.
7.	The parties may then submit or argue the case to the jury.  In the argument, the party having the burthen of proof, shall have the conclusion, and the adverse party the opening.  If there be more than one speech on either side, or if several defendants having separate defences, appear by different counsel, the Court shall arrange their relative order.
8.	The Court may then instruct the jury, having first reduced the instructions to writing, unless the parties consent that they may be given without writing.  In instructing the jury, the Judge must state to them all matters of law which he thinks necessary for their information in giving their verdict, and shall not instruct nor comment on the weight of evidence.  Such instructions shall be signed by the Judge, and filed.
	A material departure from the foregoing provisions, if objected to at the time and exception be taken, shall be good cause of reversal.

SEC. 381.  Papers read in evidence may be carried by the jury to their retirement; but not where part only of a paper has been read, unless the part which was read be separated from that which was not.  And where instructions asked have been partly given and partly refused, the parts refused cannot be taken out with the parts given.

SEC. 382.  At any time before the jury have rendered their verdict, the Court may, for reasons in furtherance of justice, permit either party to supply an omission in the evidence.

SEC. 383.  Whenever, in the opinion of the Court, it is proper for the jury to have a view of real property which is the subject of litigation, or of the place in which any material fact occurred, such property or place being within the county, it may order them to be conducted in a body under the charge of an officer to the place, which shall be shown to them by some person appointed by the Court for that purpose.  While the jury are thus absent, no person other than the person so appointed, shall speak to them on any subject connected with the trial.  Such view shall be refused, where, owing to the distance to be travelled, or other cause, it would be inconvenient to make it.

SEC. 384.  When the case is finally submitted to the jury, they may decide in Court or retire for deliberation.  If they retire, they must be kept together in some convenient place, under the charge of an officer, until they agree upon a verdict or be discharged by the Court, subject to the discretion of the Court to permit them to separate temporarily at night, and at their meals.  The officer having them under his charge, shall not suffer any communication to be made to them or make any himself, except to ask them if they have agreed upon their verdict, unless by order of the Court; and he shall not, before their verdict is rendered, communicate to any person the state of their deliberations, or the verdict agreed upon.

SEC. 385.  If the jury are permitted to separate either during the trial or after the case is submitted to them, they shall be admonished by the Court, that it is their day not to converse with, or suffer themselves to be addressed by any other person, on any subject of the trial; and during the trial, the Court may admonish the jury, that it is their duty not to form or express an opinion thereon, until the cause is finally submitted to them.

SEC. 386.  After the jury have retired for deliberation, if they desire to be informed as to any point of law arising in the case, they may request the officer to conduct them into Court, where the information required, being first reduced to writing, shall be given in the presence of, or after notice to the parties or their council.  And if the jury disagree, as to any part of the testimony, the Court may in the presence of, or after notice to both parties or their counsel, permit the witness to recapitulate the testimony touching such fact; and the Court may instruct them as to the law touching the same, reducing the instruction to writing as in other cases.

SEC. 387.  The jury may be discharged by the Court on account of the sickness of a juror, or other accident or calamity requiring their discharge, or by consent of the parties, of after they have been kept together until it satisfactorily appears that there is not probability of their agreeing.

SEC. 388.  Where the jury are discharged during the trial or after the cause is submitted to them, it may be tried again immediately or at a future time, as the Court may direct.

SEC. 389.  When the jury have agreed upon their verdict, they must be conducted into Court, their names called by the Clerk, and the verdict rendered by their foreman.

SEC. 390.  When the verdict is announced, either party may require the jury to be polled, which is done by the Clerk or Court asking each juror if it is his verdict.  If any one answers in the negative, the jury must again be sent out for further deliberation.

SEC. 391.  The verdict shall be written, signed by the foreman, and read by the Clerk to the jury, and the inquiry made whether it is their verdict.  If any juror disagrees, they jury must be sent out again; but if no disagreement is expressed, and neither party requires the jury to be polled, the verdict is complete, and the jury discharged from the case.

SECTION 4. Verdict.

SEC. 392.  The verdict of a jury is either general or special.  A general verdict is that by which they pronounce generally, upon all or any of the issues, either in favor of the plaintiff or defendant.
	A special verdict is that by which they find the facts only.  It must present the facts as established by the evidence, and not the evidence to prove them; and they must be so presented, as that nothing remains to the Court, but to draw from them conclusions of law.

SEC. 393.  The jury, in their discretion, may render a general or special verdict, but may be required by the Court, in any case in which they render a general verdict, to find specially upon particular questions of fact to be stated in writing.  But such questions shall be substantial abridgements of the material or controlling issues of fact.  This special finding is to be recorded with the verdict.

SEC. 394.  When the special finding of facts is inconsistent with the general verdict, the former controls the latter, and the Court may give judgment accordingly.
	After the jury have announced their verdict, they may alter and correct if, before it is received and recorded; and the Court may also send them out again to reconsider their verdict before it is received, if it appear to be a mistaken one.
	When, by the verdict, either party is entitled to recover money of the adverse party, the jury, in their verdict, must assess the amount of recovery.

SEC. 395.  If the jury find a verdict for an amount exceeding the amount claimed by the complaint or answer, the excess may be remitted and judgment rendered accordingly, or the party may submit to a new trial.

SEC. 396.  In suits for the recovery of specific personal property, whenever, by the verdict, there will be a judgment for the recovery or return of the property, the jury must assess the value; and such assessment shall specify the separate value of each article, unless, owing to the nature of the property, such specification would be tedious and inconvenient.

SEC. 397.  The verdict must comprehend the whole issue or issues submitted to the jury.

SEC. 398.  In case of several issues, the jury may find some for the plaintiff and some for the defendant.

SEC. 399.  Where there are several defendants, the jury may find in favor of the plaintiff against some of the defendants, and against the plaintiff in favor of the other defendants.

SEC. 400. In a suit for an injury independent of contract, against several defendants, if the defendants be found jointly guilty, the jury cannot sever the damages; otherwise they may.

SEC. 401.  Where the defendant is in default as to one or more of several causes of action stated in the complaint, the jury must assess the damages which the plaintiff is entitled to recover thereon, unless they shall have been previously assessed under Article 444.

SEC. 402.  Where one or more of several defendants are in default, and the jury find a verdict on the issue, for the plaintiff, they shall assess the damages against all the defendants; and if the jury find a verdict on the issue for the defendants, they shall nevertheless assess the damages against those who are in default, unless the answer of one of the defendants be such as shows that the plaintiff could have no cause of action against any of them.  This Article does not apply where the damages have been assessed under Article 444.

SECTION 5. Trial by the Court.

SEC. 403.  The trial by jury may be waived by the parties in suits arising on contract, and, with the assent of the Court, in other suits, in the following manner:
1.	By failing to appear at the trial
2.	By written consent in person, or by attorney, filed with the Clerk
3.	By oral consent in open Court, entered on the record.  

SEC. 404.  Upon trial of issues of fact by the Court, it shall not be necessary for the Court to state its finding, except generally for the plaintiff or defendant, unless one of the parties request it, with a view of excepting to the decision of the Court upon questions of law involved in the trial; in which case the Court shall state in writing the conclusions of fact found, separately from the conclusions of law.

SEC. 405.  The provisions of this Title, respecting trials by jury, apply, so far as they are in their nature applicable to trials by the Court.

SECTION 6. Trial by Referees.

SEC. 406.  All, or any of the issue in the suit whether of law or fact, or both, may be referred, upon the written consent of the parties.

SEC. 407. In all cases of reference, the parties may agree upon a suitable person or persons, not exceeding three, being an odd number, and the reference shall be ordered accordingly; and if the parties do not agree, the Court shall appoint the referee or referees, who shall be free from exception.

 SEC. 408.  The Clerk of the Court or other officer authorised to administer an oath, shall administer to the referee or referees an oath, fairly and impartially to try the issues referred to them; such oath shall be in writing, signed by the referee or referees, and shall be attached to the copy of the order for their appointment.

SEC. 409.  The trial by referees is conducted in the same manner as a trial by the Court.  They have the same power to grant adjustments as the Court, upon such trial.  If required, they must state the facts found and the conclusions of law separately, and their decision must be given and may be expected to and reviewed in like manner.  The report of the referees upon the whole issue, stands as the decision of the Court, and judgment may be entered thereon in the same manner as if the suit had been tried by the Court.  When the reference is to report the facts, the report has the effect of a special verdict.

SEC. 410. Subpoenas for witnesses shall be issued by the Clerk, and if a subpoena be disobeyed, the fact shall be reported to the Court by the referees, and the witness shall be punished for contempt of Court, and be liable to the party injured, as in other cases.

SEC. 411.  The order of reference may be made by the Judge in vacation, with the written consent of the parties; the consent and order being filed with the papers.

SEC. 412.  Oaths to the witnesses shall be administered by the Clerk of the Court, or some other officer competent to administer the same.

SEC. 413.  The Court may allow proper compensation to the referees, which shall be taxed as part of the costs of the suit.

SECTION 7. Auditors

SEC. 414.  Whenever it shall appear to the Court that an investigation of accounts or examination of vouchers is necessary, for the purposes of justice between the parties, the Court shall appoint an auditor or auditors to state the account between the parties and to make report so made shall, under the direction of the Court, be given in evidence to the jury, subject, however, in trials by a jury or by the Court, to be impeached by evidence from either party.  And the Court shall award reasonable compensation to such auditors, which shall be allowed and taxed in the bill of costs, to be recovered as in others cases.

SEC. 415.  The report of the auditor shall be verified by his affidavit, stating that be has examined carefully the state of the account between the parties, and that his report contains a true statement thereof, so far as the same has come to his knowledge.

SECTION 8. Exceptions.

SEC. 416.  An exception is an objection taken to a decision of the Court upon a matter of law.

SEC. 417.  The party objecting to the decision is made, but time may be given to reduce the exception to writing; but not beyond the term, unless by special leave entered of record.

SEC. 418.  No particular form of exception is required.  The objection must be stated, with so much of the evidence as is necessary to explain it and no more, and the whole as briefly as possible.

SEC. 419.  It shall not be necessary to copy a written instrument or any documentary evidence, or deposition, into a bill of exceptions; but it shall be sufficient to refer to such evidence, if its appropriate place be designated by the words “here insert.”

SEC. 420.  Where the decision objected to is entered on the record, the exception may be taken by the party causing to be noted, at the end of the decision, that he excepts.

Aut. 421.  The ruling of the Court, in giving, refusing, or qualifying instructions to the jury, shall be regarded as excepted to in all cases.

SEC. 422.  Where the decision is not entered on the record, the party excepting must reduce his exception to writing, and present it to the Judge for his allowance and signature.  If true, it shall be the duty of the Judge to allow and sign it; whereupon it shall be filed with the pleadings, as part of the record, but not spread at large on the minutes.  If the writing is not true, the Judge shall suggest the correction to be made and sign it.  If the party excepting is not satisfied with the correction, upon his procuring the signatures of two by-standers attesting the truth of his exception as by him prepared, in the particular points disputed, the same shall be filed as part of the record; but the truth of the exceptions may be controverted and maintained by affidavits, not exceeding five in number on each side, to be filed with the Clerk within ten days after the filing of the exception.

Chapter III.  New Trial.

SEC. 423.  A new trial is a re examination in the same Court of an issue of fact, after a verdict by a jury, report of referee or referees, or a decision by the Court.  The former verdict, report, or decision, may be vacated and a new trial granted, on the application of the party aggrieved, for any of the following causes affecting materially the substantial rights of such party:
1.	Irregularity in the proceedings of the Court, jury or prevailing party, or any order of Court, or abuse of discretion, by which the party was prevented from having a fair trial.
2.	Misconduct of the jury or prevailing party.
3.	Accident or surprise which ordinary prudence could not have guarded against.
4.	Excessive damages, or damages manifestly too small, appearing to have been given under the influence of passion or prejudice.
5.	Error in the assessment of the amount of recovery, whether too large or too small, where the suit is upon a contract, or for the injury or detention of property.
6.	That the verdict or decision is not sustained by sufficient evidence, or is contrary to law.
7.	Newly discovered evidence material for the party applying, which he could not, with reasonable diligence, have discovered and produced at the trial.
8.	Error of law occurring at the trial, and excepted to by the party making the application.

SEC. 424.  Not more than two new trials shall be granted to either party, unless the jury have been guilty of some misconduct, or erred in matter of law.

SEC. 425.  The application for a new trial must be made at the term the verdict or decision is rendered, and except for the cause mentioned in sub-division seven of Article 423 shall be made within three days after the verdict or decision was rendered, unless unavoidably prevented; and when so made shall be decided at same term, or stand discharged.

SEC. 426.  The application must be by motion, upon written grounds filed at the time of making the motion the grounds mentioned in the second, third, and seventh subdivisions of Article 423 must be sustained by affidavits showing their truth, and may be controverted by affidavits.

SEC. 427.  Where grounds for a new trial are discovered after the term at which the verdict or decision was rendered, the application may be made by a complaint field with the Clerk not later than the second term after the discovery, on which a citation shall issue, as on other complaints, requiring the adverse party to appear and answer it on or before the next term.  The application shall stand for hearing at the term to which the citation is returned executed, and shall be summarily decided by the Court.  The evidence may be either by depositions or by witnesses examined in Court.  But no such application shall be made more than two years after the final judgment was rendered.


Chapter IV. Judgment.

SECTION 1. Judgment in General.

SEC. 428.  A judgment is the final determination of the rights of the parties in a suit; but, where there are several plaintiffs or defendants, such judgment may be final as to one party and not as to the others.  An interlocutory judgment is the determination of an application to grant or set aside a provisional remedy, or other determination of the rights of the parties, which by its terms shows that it is not final.

SEC. 429.  A suit may be dismissed without prejudice to either party:
1.	By the plaintiff, before the final submission of the case to the jury, or to the Court where the trial is by the Court.
2.	By the Court, where the plaintiff fails to appear on the trial; or,
3.	Fails to make the necessary parties, after having been ordered by the Court; or
4.	On the application of some of the defendants, where there are other necessary parties whom the plaintiff fails to prosecute with diligence; or,
5.	For disobedience by the plaintiff, after due warning, of an order concerning the proceedings in the suit, 
	In all other cases, upon the trial of the suit, the decision must be upon the merits.

SEC. 430.  In any case where a counterclaim has been presented, the defendant shall have the right of proceeding to the trial of his claim, although the plaintiff may have dismissed his suit or failed to appear.

SEC. 431.  Judgment may be given for or against one or more of several plaintiffs, and for or against one or more of several defendants; and it may determine the rights of the parties on each side, as between themselves; and it may grant to the defendant any affirmative relief to which he may be entitled.  But the main judgment, as between the plaintiffs and defendants, shall not be embarrassed or delayed by the proceedings to determine the rights of the parties on either side, as between themselves.

SEC. 432.  In a suit against several defendants, the Court may render judgment against one or more of them, leaving the suit to proceed against the others, whenever a several judgment may be proper.

SEC. 433.  In a suit to recover the possession of personal property, the judgment for the plaintiff may be for the delivery of the property, or the value thereof, in case a delivery cannot be had, and damages for the detention.  Where the property has been delivered to the plaintiff, and a return thereof is claimed, judgment may be for the return of the property, or its value in case a return cannot be had, and damages for the taking and withholding of the property.

SEC. 434.  Where the party against whom judgment is rendered, shall have given a bond at the commencement or during the progress of the suit, with sureties, for a provisional remedy or other purpose incidental to the suit, the judgment shall include the sureties in a form consistent with the tenor of the bond.

SEC. 435.  Where the judgment is for the conveyance of real estate, or the delivery of personal property, the judgment may pass the title of such property, without any act to be done on the part of the party against whom the judgment is rendered.

SEC. 436.  When judgment is given against executors or administrators for the recovery of money due from, or damages incurred by their testator or intestate, or for the foreclosure of a mortgage or enforcement of other lien, such judgment shall state that it is to be paid in due course of administration; and no execution or order of sale shall issue in such judgment.

SEC. 437.  Judgments for the enforcement of specific liens, against persons other than executors or administrators, shall be that the plaintiff recover his debt, damages and costs, and that an order of sale issue to the Sheriff of the county where the property, or any part thereof, can be found, directing him to sell the same if found, as under execution; and if the proceeds of such sale or sales be insufficient to pay the judgment, or it the property cannot be found, further execution may be issued for such balance, or for the debt, against such defendant, as the case may be.

SEC. 438.  The relief granted to the plaintiff, if there be no answer, cannot exceed, or vary substantially from that which he shall have demanded in his complaint; but in any other case, the Court may grant him any relief consistent with the case made by the complaint, and embraced within the issue.  Where there is a defect in the demand for relief, and the defendant has not appeared, the plaintiff may amend, and cite the defendant anew.

SEC. 439.  The Clerk, immediately after the adjournment of the Court, shall attach together and file the following papers, which shall constitute the judgment roll:
1.	In case the complaint be not answered by any defendant, the citation and complaint, proof of service, the verdict or report and statement of the facts, if any, and a copy of the judgment.
2.	In all other cases, the citation, pleadings, and a copy of the judgment, with any verdict or report, the offer of the defendant, exceptions, statement of facts, if any, and all orders and papers in any way involving the merits, and necessarily affecting the judgment.

SECTION 2.  Judgment where all the Defendants are not cited.

SEC. 440.  Where the suit is against two or more defendants, and the citation is served on more or more, but not on all of them, the plaintiff may proceed as follows:
1.	If the suit be against defendants jointly indebted upon contract, he may proceed against the defendant served unless the Court otherwise direct, and if he recover judgment, it may be entered against all the defendants thus jointly indebted, so far only that it may be enforced against the joint property of all, and the separate property of the defendants served; or,
2.	If the suit be against defendants severally liable, he may proceed against the defendants served in the same manner as if they were the only defendants named; and my afterwards proceed in the same suit against those not served.
3.	This Article shall not authorise the entry of judgment against an indorser, surety, or guarantor, liable as such only, unless judgment shall have been or shall at the same time be entered against the principal who is jointly sued, except in cases where the principal resides beyond the limits of the State, or is dead, or insolvent, or a transient person beyond the limits of the county.

SEC. 441.  When a judgment shall be recovered against one or more of several persons jointly indebted upon contract, as provided in the foregoing Article, those who were not originally cited to answer the complaint, may be cited to show cause why they should not be bound by the judgment, in the same manner as if they had been originally cited.

SECTION 3. Judgment upon Failure to Answer.

SEC. 442.  Where the defendant fails to file his answer within the time prescribed by law, or to obtain an enlargement of the time for answering, he shall be deemed to be in default, and the plaintiff may take judgment at any time.

SEC. 443.  Where a defendant is in default he cannot demur or answer, without leave of the Court first had, on motion for that purpose; and a demurrer or answer so filed, without leave, may be treated as a nullity.

SEC. 444.  Where there has been personal service of the citation, or the defendant has appeared, and the defendant is in default, judgment may be had as follows:
1.	In any suit arising purely on contract, in writing, for an amount ascertainable by calculation, the Clerk shall enter judgment for such amount against the defendant of defendants, or against one or more of several defendants.
2.	In other suits, the plaintiff may apply to the Court for the relief demanded in the complaint.  If the taking of an account, or the proof of any fact be necessary to enable the Court to give judgment or to carry the judgment into effect, the Court may take the account or hear the proof, or may, in its discretion, order a reference for that purpose.  And where the suit is for the recovery of money only, or of specific real or personal property, with damages for the withholding thereof, the Court may order the damages to be assessed by a jury, or if the examination of a long account be involved, by a reference as above provided.  The defendant, notwithstanding his default, may appear and assist the Court and jury or referees, in ascertaining the proper judgment, assessment or computation.

SEC. 445.  Where there has been personal service of the citation, or an appearance, and the defendant is in default, whether judgment has been entered or not, the defendant may, on motion at the same term of the Court, be permitted to make a defence on the following terms:
1.	The defendant, his agent or attorney, shall make affidavit that he is advised and verily believes that he has a good and substantial ground of defence to the whole suit, or to part thereof, stating such part.
2.	The defendant shall pay all costs previously incurred.

SEC. 446.  Where service is made by publication and no appearance is entered within the time allowed for pleading, the Court shall appoint an attorney to defend the suit; but the rights of the absent defendant cannot be prejudiced by the acts of an attorney so appointed.

SEC. 447.  In suits where the service of the citation was by publication, and the defendant has not appeared, the plaintiff may, at the second term of the Court, apply for the relief demanded in the complaint, and the Court must thereupon require proof to be made of the demand or material facts mentioned in the complaint, and must require the plaintiff, or his agent, where the suit is for the recovery of money, to be examined on oath respecting any payments that have been made to the plaintiff, or to any one for his use, on account of such demand, and may render judgment for the amount which he is entitled to recover.  But where the plaintiff files with the petition his own affidavit, stating that any of the allegations thereof recited in the affidavit are true, and known to be so by the defendant, and that they cannot be proved or shown otherwise than by his testimony so far as affiant knows or believes, such allegations unless denied by the answer, shall be taken as true.  Before rendering judgment, the Court shall require the plaintiff to cause to be filed satisfactory security, to abide the order of the Court, touching the restitution of any estate or effect which may be directed by such judgment to be transferred or delivered, or the restitution of any money that may be collected under, or by virtue of such judgment, in case the defendant or his representative shall apply and be admitted to defend the suit, and shall succeed in such defence.

SEC. 448.  Where the citation shall have been served by publication only, except in suits for divorce, the defendant or his representatives may, upon good cause shown, be allowed to defend after judgment, at any time within one year after notice thereof, and within five years after its rendition, on such terms as may be just; and if the defence be successful, and the judgment or any part thereof, shall have been collected, or otherwise enforced, such restitution shall thereupon be compelled, as the Court may direct; but the title to property sold under such judgment, to a purchaser in good faith, other than the plaintiff in the judgment, or his attorney, shall not be thereby affected.  The exception in this Article as to suits for divorce applies to the issue of divorce only, and not to any issues as to the division or right of property, or custody of children.

SEC. 449.  On the rendition of judgment in a suit wherein service of the citation was by publication only, where there has been no appearance by the defendant, a statement of the facts on which the judgment is rendered shall be incorporated with the record.

SEC. 450.  Where, in a suit against the owners of a steamboat or other vessel without naming them, under Article 73, there is no answer filed, the statements of the complaint are not to be taken as true, but are to be established by proof on the trial, as in Article 447.

SECTION 4. Judgment by Confession.

SEC. 451.  Any person indebted or against whom a cause of action exits, may appear, in person or by attorney, in Court, and confess judgment therefor; whereupon judgment shall be entered accordingly, provided that the debtor, or person against whom the cause of action exists, shall first file with the Clerk a statement signed by him and verified by his oath, to the following effect:
1.	It must state the amount for which judgment may be entered, and authorize the entry of judgment therefor.  
2.	It must state concisely the facts out of which the cause of action arose, and must show that the sum confessed therefor is justly due.
3.	It must state that the judgment is not confessed for the purpose of hindering, delaying or defrauding the affiant’s creditors.	
	Such statement shall be made a part of the entry of judgment.

SEC. 452.  Where the judgment is confessed by attorney, the power of attorney shall be filed, and shall be made a part of the entry of judgment.

SEC. 453.  A confession of judgment is a waiver of errors.

SEC. 454.  Such judgment shall have the same effect and authorize the same proceedings as judgments rendered in suits regularly brought and prosecuted.

SECTION 5. Judgments on agreed Cases.

SEC. 455.  Parties may in all cases, either with or without process, by an agreement to that effect, submit any matter of controversy between them to the Court, upon an agreed statement of facts to be made out and signed by the parties; but it must appear by affidavit that the controversy is real and the proceedings in good faith, to determine the rights of the parties; whereupon the Court shall proceed to try the same and render judgment as in other cases.

SEC. 456.  The statement of the case, the submission, and the judgment, shall constitute the record.

SEC. 457.  The judgment may be enforced in the same manner as if it had been rendered in, suit, and, in like manner, shall be with costs, subject to an appeal or writ of error, unless otherwise provided in the submission.

SECTION 6. Docketing and Lien of Judgment.

SEC. 458.  The Clerk shall keep a book to be called “the judgment docket,” in which he shall docket all the judgments, in whole or in part, for the recovery of money, other than judgments for costs alone, within twenty days after each term of the Court, in the order in which they were rendered.  The date of the rendition of each judgment shall be stated in such entries, or at the end thereof.

SEC. 459.  The Clerk shall also keep an index to the judgment docket; and, where a judgment is against several persons, it shall be indexed in the name of each person.

SEC. 460.  Every Clerk who shall fail to keep a judgment docket, or index thereto, or who shall fail to docket any judgment and properly index the same, shall be liable to any person injured, for the amount of damages sustained by such failure, to be recovered in a suit against the Clerk alone, or upon his official bond, against him and his sureties.

SEC. 461.  The judgment docket and index thereto, shall be a record, and open, and subject to examination as other records.

SEC. 462.  Sufficient space shall be left for the entry of credits, and satisfaction, at the foot of each judgment in the judgment docket, and it shall be the duty of each Clerk to enter such credits and satisfaction, whenever the same appear by return of execution or other paper on file in his office.  And whenever it shall appear to the Court on motion, after notice to the party or his attorney of record, that credits or satisfaction ought to be entered, the Court shall order it to be done accordingly.

SEC. 463.  A judgment in whole or in part for the recovery of money, shall, for five years after its rendition, be a lien on all the real property situated in the county, which the person against whom it is rendered, may then own by title legal or equitable, or may acquire within said period.  But whenever an appeal from any judgment shall be pending, and the bond requisite to stay execution on such judgment shall have been given, and the appeal perfected as provided by law, the Court in which such judgment was recovered may, on special motion, unless there be a stipulation to the contrary in the appeal bond, after notice to the person owning the judgment, or to his attorney of record, direct an entry to be made by the Clerk on the docket of said judgment, that the same is “secured on appeal;” and thereupon it shall cease, during the pendency of the appeal, to be a lien on the real property of the judgment debtor, as against purchasers and mortgages in good faith.

SEC. 464.  Judgments on bonds and recognizances taken in criminal cases, shall bind the real estate of the debtor from the date of the first judgment of forfeiture.

SEC. 465.  If a motion for leave to issue execution be made within five years from the date of the judgment, and the motion be afterwards sustained, the original lien shall continue; but third persons shall not be affected thereby, between the time of the expiration of the five years, and the docketing of the judgment on the motion, unless a note of the motion be made on the margin, or at the foot of the judgment in a judgment docket.  The Clerk in making such note shall state the date of making the same.

SEC. 466.  When such motion is made the Clerk shall make a note thereof on the margin, or at the foot of the judgment, on the judgment docket.

SEC. 467.  Where a judgment debtor dies, the lien of the judgment extends beyond the five years, until on year after the final close of the administration, or sale of the property in due course thereof.

SECTION 7. Proceedings to Reverse, Vacate, or Modify Judgments.

SEC. 468.  A judgment of the District Court may be reversed, vacated or modified either by the Supreme Court, of by the Court in which the judgment was rendered.

SEC. 469.  A judgment may be reversed or modified by the Supreme Court, for errors appearing in the record, whether of law or fact.  This includes the interlocutory judgments mentioned in subdivision three of Article 13.

SEC. 470.  The proceedings to obtain such reversal or modification shall be by appeal prosecuted as prescribed by law.

SEC. 471.  A misprison of the Clerk shall not be a ground for an appeal or writ of error, until the same has been presented and acted upon in the District Court.

SEC. 472.  The Court in which judgment has been rendered shall have power, after the expiration of the term to vacate or modify such judgment, 
1.	By granting a new trial for the cause and in the manner prescribed in Article 423.
2.	By a new trial granted in proceedings against defendants cited by publication, as prescribed in Article 448.
3.	For misprisons on the Clerk.
4.	For fraud practised by the successful party.
5.	For erroneons proceedings against an infant or person of unsound mind, where the condition of such defendant does not appear on the record, nor the error in the proceedings.
6.	For the death of one of the parties before the verdict, of if not a trial by jury, before judgment.
7.	For unavoidable casualty preventing the party from appearing or defending.
8.	In cases contemplated by Article 257.

SEC. 473.  The proceeding to correct misprisons of the Clerk, shall be by motion upon reasonable notice, to the adverse party, or his attorney in the suit.

SEC. 474.  The proceeding to vacate or modify the judgment on the grounds mentioned in subdivisions two, four, five, six, seven and eight of Article 472, shall be complaint on oath, setting forth the judgment, the grounds to vacate or modify it, and the defence to the suit, if the party applying was defendant.  On the complaint, a citation shall issue and be served, and proceedings had as in other cases.

SEC. 475.  A judgment shall not be vacated until it is adjudged that there is a valid defense to the suit in which the judgment is rendered, or if the plaintiff seeks its vacation, that there is a valid cause of action; and where a judgment is modified, all liens and securities obtained under it, shall be preserved to the modified judgment.

SEC. 476.  The Court must first try and decide upon the grounds to vacate or modify a judgment, before trying or deciding upon the validity of the defence or cause of action.

SEC. 477.  The party seeking to vacate or modify a judgment may obtain an injunction suspending proceedings on the whole or part thereof, upon its being rendered probably by affidavit of by exhibition of the record, that the party is entitled to have such judgment vacated or modified.

SEC. 478.  Where a judgment is vacated or reversed and the same, or any part thereof, shall have been collected or otherwise enforced, such restitution shall thereupon be compelled as the law may direct; but the title to property sold under such judgment, to a purchaser in good faith, other than the plaintiff in the judgment or his attorney shall not be thereby affected.

SEC. 479.  After the trial of any cause when a party intends to appeal, he may make out of statement of the facts given in evidence on the trial of the cause, and submit the same to the opposite party or his attorney, for his inspection, during the term; and if the parties or their attorneys agree as to the facts given in evidence, they shall sign the same, and file it as part of the record.

SEC. 480. But if, on inspection of such statement, the parties cannot agree, they shall submit their respective statements to the Judge presiding at the trial, who, from the statements as furnished him, and his own knowledge, shall, during the term at which the trial was had, make out a correct statement of such facts, and sign the same, and cause it to be filed as part of the record.

SEC. 481.  When a party intends to appeal he may make a suggestion of the fact in open court, during the term; and such suggestion shall be entered of record, and shall be sufficient notice of the appeal, provided that an appeal bond be filed within twenty days after the expiration of the term of the Court as fixed by law.

SEC. 482. Every direction of a Court or Judge, entered upon the minute book or made in writing, in a suit, and not included in a judgment, is denominated an order.  An order is sometimes called an interlocutory judgment.

SEC. 483.  An application for an order is a motion.

SEC. 484.  There shall be a motion docket, wherein the Clerk shall enter all motions filed; the number of the suit, where the motion relates to a suit pending; the names of the parties, and their attorneys, and a brief statement of the nature of the motion.

SEC. 485.  Where it is not otherwise specially provided, one day’s notice of every motion shall be given to the adverse party or his attorney.  An entry of the motion in the motion docket within two days after judgment, is sufficient notice of a motion for a new trial.

SEC. 486.  Whenever in the commencement or progress of a suit, it is necessary or permitted to serve a notice, such notice may be served, either by an officer authorized by law to serve original process of the Court in which the suit is pending, or by any person who is not a party to, or interested in the suit.

SEC. 487.  Every such notice may be served in the same manner as a citation, on the party or his attorney of record, except as provided in Article 489; and the return of such notice, when made by an officer, or when made by any other person and verified by the affidavit of such person, shall be received as evidence of the facts therein stated, subject however, to be repelled by contrary proof.

SEC. 488.  Where a party has no known place of abode in this State, and no attorney in the county where the suit is pending, or where the parties, plaintiffs or defendants, are numerous, the Court may direct the mode of serving notices, and to what persons they shall be given.

SEC. 489.  Where a party has an attorney of record, in the suit, the service of papers must be made on the attorney, instead of the party.

SEC. 490. It shall be the duty of the Sheriff, where a notice is delivered to him for service within his county, to serve and return such notice to the party who delivered it to him.  A failure to perform this duty may be punished as a disobedience of the process of the Court.

SEC. 491.  The attorney of record continues to be the attorney of the party for the purpose of receiving notice, until the adverse party has been notified that he has retired from the case or been discharged.

Title IX.  Of the Costs.

SEC. 492.  Each party shall be responsible to the officers of the Court for the costs incurred by him.

SEC. 493.  Any person who shall file with the  Clerk an affidavit in writing that he is unable to pay costs, shall be permitted to prosecute or defend any suit or proceeding, free of costs.

SEC. 494.  No security for costs shall be required from the State; nor from executors, administrators or guardians in any suit to recover money due, or property belonging to the estate they represent.

SEC. 495.  Except in cases named in the two preceding Articles, the plaintiff in any suit or proceeding, on motion of the defendant, or any officer of the Court interested in the costs, may be ordered to give security for the payment of all the costs, which have accrued or may accrue in the suit, in the Court where it is then pending, provided that he motion be filed one day before the cause is called for trial; and if he fails to comply with such order on or before the first day of the next term of the Court, or make the affidavit provided for by article 493, the suit shall be dismissed.

SEC. 496.  Like security may be required of an intervener, for the payment of all costs which have accrued or which may accrue in that Court by reason of his claim or intervention.  Such security may also be required by the plaintiff; and if the intervener fail to comply with such an order before the trial of the suit commences, or make the affidavit provided for in Article 493, the claim in intervention shall be dismissed.  But further time may be allowed where the trial is afterwards postponed.

SEC. 497.  An order for security for costs shall not delay the suit, if the defendant will give the security; nor, where the order is obtained by the defendant, if it declare that the suit shall not be delayed thereby.

SEC. 498.  Security for costs may be given by the acknowledgement of one surety, to be approved by the Clerk, in open Court, or by an obligation of such surety filed with the Clerk.  Such acknowledgement or obligation shall be deemed to be a judgment, on which execution may issue for costs, properly taxable against the principal, at any time after the termination of the suit in that Court.

SEC. 499.  Additional security for costs may be required where it is made to appear to the Court that the former security is insufficient.

SEC. 500.  Where a plaintiff shall commence in the same Court, several suits against the same defendant or defendants, for causes of action that might have been joined, he shall recover his costs, in one of such suits only, if objection be made, unless sufficient reasons be shown to the Court for commencing several suits.

SEC. 501.  In suits for the injuries mentioned in Article 22, if the jury find a verdict for damages less than twenty-dollars, each party shall pay his own costs.

SEC. 502.  Where a defendant recovers judgment on a counterclaim which he obtained by assignment after the commencement of the suit the plaintiff shall recover his costs, unless the defendant would have had judgment without pleading such counterclaim.

SEC. 503.  The defendant shall recover the costs of the suit, 
1.	Where the claim of the plaintiff has been reduced by payment, to less than one hundred dollars.
2.	Where, in cases not included in Article 22, the judgment is for less than one hundred dollars, and has not been reduced below that amount by a counterclaim.

SEC. 504.  The defendant in a suit for the recovery of money only, may, at any time before the trial, serve upon the plaintiff or his attorney an offer in writing, to allow judgment to be taken against him for the sum specified therein.  If the plaintiff accept the offer, and give notice thereof to the defendant or his attorney within five days after the offer was served, the offer and an affidavit that the notice of acceptance was delivered in the time limited, may be filed by the plaintiff, or the defendant may file the acceptance, with a copy of the offer verified by affidavit; and, in either case, the offer and acceptance shall be noted on the record, and judgment shall be entered accordingly.  If the notice of acceptance be not given in the period limited, the offer shall be deemed withdrawn, and shall not be given in evidence or mentioned on the trial.  If the plaintiff fail to obtain judgment for more than was offered by the defendant, he shall pay his own and the defendant’s costs from the time of the offer.

SEC. 505.  In a suit for the recovery of money only, the defendant having answered, may serve upon the plaintiff or his attorney, an offer in writing, that, if he fail in his defence, the amount of the recovery shall be assessed at a specified sum.  If the plaintiff accept the offer and give notice thereof to the defendant or his attorney within five days after it is served, and the defendant fail in his defence, the judgment shall be for the amount so agreed upon.  If the plaintiff do not accept the offer, he shall prove the amount to be recovered, as if the offer had not been made; the offer shall not be given in evidence or mentioned on the trial; and if the amount recovered by the plaintiff do not exceed the sum mentioned in the offer, the defendant shall recover his costs incurred in the defence in respect to the question of amount, to be taxed under the direction of the Court.

SEC. 506.  The making of any offer pursuant to the provisions of either of the two preceding Articles, shall not be a cause for a continuance of a suit or postponement of a trial.

SEC. 507.  Where there are several defendants not united in interest, and making separate answers, and the plaintiff fails to recover judgment against all, the Court may award costs to such of the defendants as have judgment in their favor, or any of them.

SEC. 508.  On motions the Court may allow or refuse costs to the party prevailing.

SEC. 509.  On all issues of law the party prevailing shall recover his costs.

SEC. 510.  Where a new trial is granted, the costs shall abide the even of the suit unless otherwise directed by the Court, at the time the new trial is granted.

SEC. 511.  The party in whose favor the final judgment is rendered, shall recover costs, except in cases where it may be otherwise expressly provided by law, or directed by the Court, subject to appeal or writ of error.

SEC. 512.  The costs shall be taxed by the Clerk, subject to revision by the Court on motion.

SEC. 513.  All taxes and fees imposed on suits shall be included in the bill of costs.

SEC. 514.  There shall not be allowed in the bill of costs, the fees of more than two witnesses to the same fact.

Title X.  Suits in Particular Cases.

Chapter 1. To recover the possession of real property, and to determine conflicting claims thereto.

SECTION 1.  In General.

SEC. 515.  The plaintiff in a suit to recover the possession of real property or to determine conflicting claims to such property, shall, in his complaint particularly describe the premises, so as to distinguish the same from other like property in the vicinity, and state the particulars of his title, and that the defendant is unlawfully in possession of the premises, of that he claims to have a title thereto.

SEC. 516.  Where a suit is commenced against a tenant in possession, the landlord may enter himself, as a defendant, and shall be entitled to make such defence as if he had been the original defendant.

SEC. 517.  The defendant in his answer, in addition to the matters enumerated in Article 203, where the same are not apparent on the face of the complaint, 
1.	May deny that he is in possession of the premises described in the complaint; or
2.	May deny that he claims to have any title to the premises; or
3.	May deny that the plaintiff hath good title to the premises, or to part thereof; or
4.	May claim title to the premises or to part thereof, or to the possession thereof, stating the particulars of his title or claim; or
5.	Where the defendant is in possession by himself or tenant, he may allege that the title to the premises or to part thereof of which he is in possession, is in a third person, stating the particulars of such title.

SEC. 518.  Where the defendant denies that he claims to have any title to the premises described in the complaint, and he is not alleged to be in possession thereof, the controversy becomes a question of costs simply, and the plaintiff may proceed or discontinue the suit at his option; but in either event, the effect as to the title, shall be that of a recovery by the plaintiff.

SEC. 519.  In a suit by a tenant in common of real property, against his co-tenant, if the defendant admit the right of the plaintiff as alleged in the complaint, the controversy shall become a question of costs merely, and shall depend on whether the defendant had denied the right of the plaintiff, or did some act amounting to such denial, of which the plaintiff had information at the times of commencing the suit.

SEC. 520.  The plaintiff must recover on the strength of his own title; but where both parties claim under the same person, the party who exhibits the better title shall recover, unless the other party, being plaintiff, show a paramount title in himself, or being defendant, show a paramount title in himself or another.

SEC. 521.  Where the defendant has claimed too much, or misdescribed the part which he intended to claim, he may amend at any time before jury retire; but if the plaintiff will admit the defence, after such amendment is made, the defendant shall pay all costs incurred after the answer was filed.

SEC. 522.  Where the defendant claims part of the premises only, the answer is equivalent to a disclaimer of the balance.

SEC. 523.  Where the defendant claims the whole premises, and the plaintiff shows himself entitled to recover part, he shall recover such part and costs.

SEC. 524.  Either party shall have the right to go upon the land for the purpose of making a survey thereof; and if either party hinder or prevent the other by force or threats, he may be proceeded against as for a contempt of Court.

SEC. 525.  If the interest of the plaintiff expire before the time at which he could be put in possession, he shall obtain a judgment for damages only.

SEC. 526.  Where there are two or more plaintiffs or defendants, any one or more of the plaintiffs may recover against one or more of the defendants, the premises or any part thereof, or any interest therein, or damages according to the right of the parties.

SEC. 527.  Where it is alleged and proved that one of the parties is in possession of the premises, the jury, if they find for the adverse party, shall assess the damages for the mesne profits; and if special injury to the property be alleged and proved, the jury shall assess the damages accordingly.  But such assessment shall not be made, where the party in possession has availed himself of the law for the benefit of claimants in good faith.

SEC. 528.  Where one party in a suit of this nature, is entitled to damages for withholding or useing or injuring his property, the adverse party may set off the value of any permanent improvements madet here on by him or those under whom he claims, to the extent of such damages, unless he proposes to avail himself of the law for the benefit of claimants in good faith.

SEC. 529.  The Court rendering the judgment, upon the application of the party against whom judgment is rendered, his heirs or assigns or representatives, filed within one year after the judgment, and upon the payment of all costs, and of the damages if the Court so direct, shall vacate the judgment and grant a new trial.  But one new trial can be granted without cause.

SEC. 530.  After a new trial granted to the plaintiff without cause, if the suit be dismissed, or the plaintiff take a non-suit, the defendant shall have a judgment in his favor for the land in controversy.

SEC. 531.  If the application for a new trial be made after the close of the term at which the judgment was rendered, the party applying shall give the adverse party, or his attorney of record, ten days notice thereof, before the first day of the next term after the application is made.

SEC. 532.  The result of the new trial, if application therefor be made after the close of the term at which the judgment was rendered, shall in no case affect the interest of third persons, acquired in good faith, for a valuable consideration, since the former trial, and before the application for a new trial.

SEC. 533.  But the party who, on such new trial, shows himself entitled to lands which have thus passed to the hands of a purchaser, may recover the proper amount of damages against the other party, either in the same or in a subsequent suit.  But such party shall not be required to prove that the purchase was made in good faith.

SECTION 2.  Claimants in good faith.

SEC. 534.  In any suit to recover the possession of real property or to determine conflicting claims thereto, either party may allege in his pleadings, that he and those persons under whom he claims, have had adverse possession in good faith, of the property in controversy, for at least one year next before the commencement of such suit; and that he and those persons under whom he claims, have made permanent and valuable improvements on the lands sued for, during the time he or they have had such possession of the same, stating the improvements and their value respectively; and stating also the grounds of his or their claim.

SEC. 535.  If the party who makes such allegation, be found by the Court or jury not to be the rightful owner of the property, the issues joined on such allegation shall thereupon be tried as in other cases, and the Court or jury shall assess:
1.	The present value of all permanent improvements made as aforesaid, previous to the commencement of the suit; 
2.	The damages, if any, which the premises may have sustained by waste or cultivation, to the time of rendering judgment;
3.	The fair value of the use and occupation of the premises, without the improvements made as aforesaid; and
4.	The value of the estate which the successful party has in the premises, without the improvements made as aforesaid.
	If the trial be by jury, the above issues shall be tried by the same jury, which tried the main issue, unless prevented by accident or other unavoidable cause.

SEC. 536.  If the value of the use and occupation, and the damages exceed the value of the improvements, judgment shall be rendered in favor of the successful party for the excess.

SEC. 537.  If the value of the use and occupation, and the damages do not equal the value of the improvements, the successful party may pay the value of the improvements, deducting the value of the use and occupation and the damages sustained, and take the property.

SEC. 538.  Should he fail to do so, after a reasonable time, to be fixed by the Court, the adverse party may take the property upon paying the assessed value of the land aside from the improvements.

SEC. 539.  If this be not done within a reasonable time, to be fixed by the court, the parties will be held to be tenants in common of all the lands, including the improvements, each holding an interest proportionate to the value of his property, as ascertained by the assessment aforesaid.

SEC. 540.  A purchaser at any judicial or tax sale, made by the proper person or officer, is a claimant in good faith, within the meaning of this Section, whether such person or officer had sufficient authority to sell or not, unless the want of authority was known to the purchaser at the time of the sale, or at the time of making the improvements.  And the rights of such purchaser shall pass to his assignees or representatives.

SEC. 541.  Whenever any real property sold by an executor, administrator, guardian, sheriff, tax collector, or other officer, shall be afterwards found to be the property of any person originally liable, or in whose hands the real property would be liable, to pay the demand or judgment for which, or for whose benefit the land was sold, or any one claiming under such person, the successful party not be entitled to the possession of the property, unless he refund the purchase money, with interest, deducting therefrom the value of the use and occupation, and injury done by waste and cultivation, to be assessed as aforesaid; and the judgment in such case may order a sale of the property to pay such purchase money and interest, if the same be not paid by a day to be fixed by the Court.

SEC. 542.  In such case the value of the use and occupation, and injury done by waste and cultivation, shall first be set off against the assessed value of the improvements; and if the value of the use and occupation exceed the value of the improvements, such excess shall be deducted from the purchase money.

Chapter II. Suits for partition of real or personal property.

SEC. 543.  Suits may be brought for the partition of real or personal property, by one part owner or tenant in common against another, in all cases; and the pleadings and practice in such suits, shall conform to the provisions of this Code.

SEC. 544.  Partition may be demanded in one suit, of all the several parcels of real property, to which the parties have title, and execution thereupon had by the Sheriff and three special commissioners to be appointed by the Court, by allotment to each party, of part in each parcel, or of part in one or more parcels, or of one or more individual parcels, with or without the addition of a part or parts of other parcels, as shall be most for the interest of the parties in general.

SEC. 545.  When it shall appear to the commissioners, in making partition, that a particular part or parcel ought to be assigned to a particular party, to be compensated by parts or parcels of equal value, or by the payment of money, they shall make the partition accordingly, returning their reasons therefor; and the Court may either confirm the report or set it aside, or grant an issue of fact to be tried by a jury.

SEC. 546.  Where the commissioners find that they cannot make a division of the property into the necessary parts and parcels, without greatly diminishing the value thereof, they shall report the fact; and unless an issue be demanded and the report proved to be untrue, the Court shall order a sale of the property, on such terms as shall appear to be most for the advantage of the parties.

SEC. 547.  Where it appears, from the nature of the property itself, that it cannot be divided, the Court may order a sale, without the appointment of commissioners.

SEC. 548.  In a suit for partition, where one party has been in possession, or made improvements, the value of the use or rent, and the increased value of the property caused by the improvements, shall be computed in favor of the respective parties.

Chapter III. Suits for waste.

SEC. 549.  In suits for waste, judgment of forfeiture and eviction shall only be given in favor of the person entitled to the reversion, against the tenant in possession, when the injury to the estate in reversion, shall be adjudged in the suit, to be equal to the value of the tenant’s estate or unexpired term, or to have been done in malice.

Chapter IV.  Suits for nuisance.

SEC. 550.  A suit to enjoin, or abate a nuisance, and for damages, may be brought by any person whose property is injuriously affected, or whose personal enjoyment is lessened by the nuisance, or who is impeded thereby in the exercise of any right which he has.

Chapter V.  Suits for forfeitures and escheats.

SEC. 551.  Whenever any property shall escheat or be forfeited to the State, a suit shall be commenced by the District Attorney, in the county where the property is situated, for the recovery thereof; and like proceedings and judgment shall be had as in other suits to recover similar property.

Chapter VI.  Suits for divorce.

SEC. 552.  In a suit for divorce, the admission by the defendant, of any fact alleged in the complaint, except the fact of marriage, shall not dispense with the proof thereof; but all the facts essential to constitute a ground for divorce, must be sustained by proof, although not denied by the answer.

Chapter VII.  Suits respecting offices, franchises and trusts.

SEC. 553.  A suit may be commenced against any person or corporation in the following cases:
1.	When any person shall usurp, intrude into, or unlawfully hold or exercise any public office, or any franchise within this State, or any office in any corporation created by the authority of this State.
2.	Whenever any public officer shall have done or suffered any act which, by the provisions of law, shall work a forfeiture of his office.
3.	Where any association or number of persons shall act within this State as a corporation, without being legally incorporated.
4.	Where any corporation shall do or omit acts which amount to a surrender of their charter, or when they exercise powers not conferred by law.
5.	Where a private corporation is insolvent, or in imminent danger of insolvency.
6.	Where a corporation, board, or person, refuses to perform an act which the law specially enjoins, or a duty resulting from an office, trust or station; or,
7.	Where a corporation, board, or person, is about to do an acat which the law specially forbids, or which is in violation of a duty resulting from an office, trust or station.
SEC. 554. Such suit may be commenced by the District Attorney, in the name of the State of Texas, upon his own relation, whenever he shall deem it his duty to do so, or shall be directed by the Court or other competent authority, where the public have an interest; or by any person in his own name, whenever he claims an interest in the office, franchise, corporation or trust, which is the subject of the suit.

SEC. 555.  Damages may be claimed and recovered in such suit, as in other cases.

SEC. 556.  When several persons claim to be entitled to the same office, all should be made parties.

SEC. 557.  Where a corporation is dissolved, or its charter declared forfeited by the judgment of the Court, or, being a private corporation, is insolvent, or in imminent danger of insolvency, or where any association or number of persons are found guilty of having acted as a corporation without having been legally incorporated, the Court may appoint a receiver of its property and effects, take an account, and make a distribution thereof among the creditors and other persons entitled thereto.

Chapter VIII.  Suits for foreclosure of mortgages, and enforcement of other liens.

SEC. 558.  When default is made in the performance of any condition contained in a mortgage, the mortgage or his assigns, may proceed to foreclose the equity of redemption contained in the mortgage.

SEC. 559.  In rendering judgment of foreclosure, the Court shall order the mortgaged property, or so much thereof as may be necessary, to be sold to satisfy the mortgage and costs of the suit.  The payment of the mortgage debt, with interest and costs, at any time before sale, shall satisfy the judgment.

SEC. 560.  The Court shall direct in the order of sale, that the balance due on the mortgage, and costs which may remain unsatisfied after the sale of the mortgaged property, shall be levied of any property of the mortgage debtor, not exempt from execution.

SEC. 561.  A copy of the judgment and order of sale shall be issued and certified by the Clerk, under the seal of the Court, to the Sheriff of the county where the property or any part thereof may be, who shall thereupon proceed to see the mortgaged property, or so much thereof as may be necessary to satisfy the judgment, interest and costs as upon execution; and if any part of the judgment, interest and costs remain unsatisfied, execution may be issued, as in other cases, which may be levied upon any property of the mortgagor not exempt from execution.

SEC. 562.  Where the mortgage is on personal property, if the property, or enough thereof to satisfy the judgment, interests and costs, cannot be found, the Sheriff shall state the fact in his return, and thereupon execution shall issue as in other cases, which may be levied upon any property of the mortgagor not exempt from execution.

SEC. 563.  The plaintiff shall not proceed by separate suit to foreclose his mortgage, while he is prosecuting any other suit for the same debt or matter which is secured by the mortgage, or while he is seeking to obtain execution of any judgment in such other suit; nor shall he prosecute any other suit for the same matter, while he is foreclosing his mortgage, or prosecuting a judgment of foreclosure.

SEC. 564.  Whenever a complaint is filed for the foreclosure of a mortgage, upon which there shall be due any interest, or instalment of the principal, and there are other instalments not due, if the mortgagor, or any person for him, pay into Court the principal and interest due, with costs, at any time before final judgment, the complaint shall be dismissed; if such payment be made after final judgment, proceedings thereon shall be stayed, subject to be enforced on a subsequent default in the payment of any instalment of the principal or interest thereafter becoming due.  In the final judgment, it shall be directed at what time, and upon what default, any subsequent execution shall issue.

SEC. 565.  In such cases, after final judgment, the Court shall ascertain whether the property can be sold in parcels, and if it can be done without injury to the interest of the parties, the Court shall direct so much only of the premises to be sold as will be sufficient to pay the amount then due on the mortgage, with costs; and the judgment shall remain and may be enforced upon any subsequent default, unless the amount due shall be paid before a sale.

SEC. 566.  If the mortgaged property cannot be sold in parcels, the Court shall order the whole to be sold; and the proceeds of the sale shall be applied first to the payment of the principal due, interest and costs, and then to the residue secured by the mortgage and not due; and if the residue do not bear interest, a deduction shall be made there from discounting the legal interest, or if conventional interest was included in the principal sum, such conventional interest.  And in all such cases where the proceeds of the sale are more than sufficient to pay the amount due and costs, the surplus shall be paid to the mortgage debtor, his heirs or assigns, unless the same be claimed by the holder of a subsequent lien.

SEC. 567.  Whenever an execution shall issue upon a judgment recovered for a debt secured by mortgage, other than the judgment of foreclosure herein provided, the plaintiff shall endorse thereon a brief description of the mortgaged property, and the equity of redemption shall in no case be sold on such execution.

Chapter IX. Remedies of sureties.

SEC. 568.  Any person bound as surety upon any contract for the payment of money or the performance of any act, when the right of action has accrued, may require, by notice in writing, the creditor or obligee forthwith to institute a suit upon the contract.

SEC. 569.  If the creditor or obligee, not being under legal disability, shall fail to bring his suit to the first term of the Court thereafter, or to the second term, showing good cause why he did not bring it to the first term, and prosecute the same to judgment and execution, the surety giving such notice, shall be discharged from all liability theron.

SEC. 570.  When any suit is brought against two or more defendants upon a contract, any one or more of the defendants being surety for the others, the surety may, upon a written complaint to the Court, cause the question of suretyship to be tried and determined upon the issue made for the parties defendant, at the trial of the cause, or at any time before or after the trial, or at a subsequent term; but such proceedings shall not delay the suit of the plaintiff.

SEC. 571.  If the finding of such issue be in favor of the surety, the Court shall make an order direction the Sheriff to levy the execution first upon and exhaust the property of the principal, before a levy shall be made upon the property of the surety; and the Clerk shall endorse a memorandum of the order on the execution.

SEC. 572.  When any person being surety in any undertaking whatever, shall be compelled to pay any judgment, or any part thereof, or shall make any payment which is applied upon such judgment, by reason of such suretyship, or when any Sheriff or other officer, or any surety upon his official bond, shall be compelled to pay any judgment or any part thereof, by reason of any default of such officer, except for failing to pay over any money collected, or for wasting property levied on, the judgment shall not be discharged by such payment, but shall remain in force for the use of the surety, officer, or other person making such payment; and after the judgment creditor is paid, so much of the judgment as remains undischarged, may be prosecuted to execution for the use of such surety, officer or other person.

SEC. 573.  Any one of several sureties having paid and satisfied the judgment creditor, shall have the remedy provided in the preceding Article, against the co-sureties, to collect of them the ratable proportion each is equitably bound to pay.

SEC. 574.  The remedy provided for sureties by this Chapter, extends to endorsers, guarantors, drawers of bills, which have been accepted and every other suretyship, whether created by express contract or by the operation of law.

Chapter X.  Trial of right to property seized on attachment, sequestration, or execution.

SEC. 575.  Where personal property which is levied on under attachment, sequestration, or execution, is claimed by any person who is not a party to the writ, such person may reclaim possession, by making affidavit of his title thereto, stating the grounds of such title, and delivering such affidavit to the Sheriff, together with a bond to the effect indicated in the preceding Article.  The affidavit may be made by any person who has personal knowledge of the facts.

SEC. 576.  The bond to be given by such claimant or some person for him, shall be signed by one or more sureties to be approved by the Sheriff, shall describe the property, and state the separate value of each article, and be to the effect that the surety or sureties are bound unto the person at whose instance the writ was issued, in an amount equal to double the value of the property, for the delivery thereof to the Sheriff, if such delivery be adjudged, and all damages and costs that may be awarded against the claimant.

SEC. 577.  The affidavit shall be endorsed on the bond, and may refer thereto for a description of the property.

SEC. 578.  The Sheriff, upon the receipt of such affidavit and bond, shall deliver the property to the claimant.

SEC. 579.  The Sheriff shall endorse on the writ, that such claim has been made, and affidavit and bond given, stating by whom, and shall forthwith deliver the oath and bond to the Clerk of the District Court of his county.

SEC. 580.  Where the writ was issued from the District Court of another country, or from the Supreme Court, the Sheriff shall deliver with the oath and bond a copy of the writ, and endorsement thereon; the endorsement being signed by him officially.

SEC. 581.  Where the Sheriff shall have taken an indemnifying bond, he shall state the fact in his return, and deliver the bond with the oath and bond of the claimant, to the Clerk of the District Court.

SEC. 582.  The giving of the bond to try the right of property, shall discharge the levy upon the property claimed; but the writ may be levied upon any other property of the defendant, not exempt from execution, liable thereto.

SEC. 583.  The Clerk, on the receipt of the oath and bond, or of the oath, bond, and copy of the writ, as the case may be, shall immediately docket the proceeding, as a suit, in which the claimant shall be the plaintiff, and the person for whose benefit the writ issued shall be the defendant.

SEC. 584.  Such suit shall be disposed of at the first term of the Court, like suits in which citation has been duly served.

SEC. 585.  The statement of the plaintiff’s claim or title, as contained in the affidavit, shall stand as a complaint, subject to amendment as in other cases, and must be answered by the defendant, as in other suits.

SEC. 586.  The defendant in execution, attachment, or sequestration, shall be deemed to be a party, so far that he may demand any relief to which he may appear to be entitled against either the plaintiff or defendant, or apply for any order that is proper to protect his own rights; but the trial of the main issue shall not be delayed thereby.

SEC. 587.  Where such claim shall be made to property levied on by attachment at the commencement of, or during the progress of a suit, the trial may be suspended by order of the Court, until the suit in which the attachment was obtained shall have been determined.  

SEC. 588.  Where such claim shall be made to property levied on by sequestration, the trial thereof may be suspended by order of the Court, until the suit in which the sequestration was obtained, shall have been determined, or said suits may be consolidated.

SEC. 589.  In the absence of any proof on the trial, judgment shall be rendered for the defendant.

SEC. 590.  If the plaintiff prove that the property was in his possession, or in the possession of his agent, or bailee, at the time of the levy, it shall devolve on the defendant to rebut the presumption of ownership arising from such possession.

SEC. 591.  Where the presumption of ownership arising from possession is rebutted, the burden of proof again rests on the plaintiff.

SEC. 592.  Either party may allege and prove that the property or part thereof, was not appraised at its true value, whereupon the jury or the Court trying the facts, shall find the value of such property.

SEC. 593.  When the plaintiff fails to establish his right to the property or any part thereof, damages shall be awarded in favor of the defendant, not exceeding ten percent on the value of such property nor on the amount claimed in the writ.

SEC. 594.  The presumption shall be that the amount which appeared to be due on the execution, or the amount of the judgment in the suit, in which the attachment of sequestration was obtained, is still due, unless the amount be reduced by proper allegations and proof.

SEC. 595.  If the judgment be in favor of the defendant, it shall show, 
1.	The amount of principal, interest, and costs, still due and unpaid on the original judgment, or judgment in the suit in which the attachment was obtained.
2.	The property as to which the plaintiff failed to establish his right, and the separate value thereof.
3.	It shall require such property or enough thereof to satisfy said principal, interest, and costs, to be delivered to the Sheriff to be sold, to satisfy said amount.
4.	It shall provide that in case of the failure of the plaintiff or any person for him, to deliver such property, in like good condition as when received, or any part thereof, or enough thereof to satisfy the said amount of principal, interest, and costs, the Sheriff shall levy and collect of any property of the plaintiff or his sureties not exempt from execution, an amount equal to the ascertained value or the property not delivered, not exceeding the balance due.
5.	It shall be to the further effect that the defendant recover of the plaintiff and his sureties, the damages assessed, if any, and the costs.

SEC. 596.  Where the property has been levied on by a writ of sequestration, if the writ was obtained in a suit for the enforcement of a lien, or claim for money, the judgment for the defendant shall be the same as provided in the preceding Article; but if the suit be for the recovery of specific property, the suit shall be as follows:
1.	It shall show the judgment in the suit in which the sequestration was obtained.
2.	The property as to which the plaintiff failed to establish his right, and the separate value thereof.
3.	It shall require such property to be delivered to the Sheriff, to be by him delivered to the defendant.
	It shall provide that in case of the failure of the plaintiff or any person for him, to deliver such property in like good condition as when received, or any part thereof, the Sheriff shall levy and collect of any property of the plaintiff or his sureties, not exempt from execution, an amount equal to the value of the property not delivered.
5.It shall be to the further effect, that the defendant recover of the plaintiff and his sureties, the damages assessed, if any, and the costs.
	Where the main suit and the suit for the trial of the right of property have been consolidated, the fact mentioned in subdivision one is sufficiently shown by the judgment in the case, without the necessity of repeating it.

SEC. 597.  Where the Sheriff shall have taken and returned an indemnifying bond, or if the defendant shall appear and contest the claim of property, the plaintiff may claim damages for the unlawful taking of the property, and if he establish his right thereto, the jury or court trying the facts shall assess the damages, for which the plaintiff shall have judgment against the defendant, and after citation, against his sureties, as in the case of persons jointly bound.

SEC. 598.  Where the defendant in execution or attachment makes affidavit that personal property levied on is exempt from the execution of attachment, and gives the forthcoming bond as provided in Article 575, he shall be entitled to recover possession of the property; and the like proceedings shall be had to try the question, as is provided in this Chapter, for the trial of the right of property claimed by a third person.

Title XI.  Revision of proceedings in county courts.

SEC. 599.  A person interested and desiring to have the proceedings of the County Court, pertaining to the estates of decedants and wards, or any other matter, revised and corrected, may file his complaint as in other cases, together with a certified copy of the proceedings to be revised, and cause the adverse party to be cited to answer the same, as in other cases.

SEC. 600.  The Court may refuse to proceed in the absence of persons who have an interest and who have not been personally served, and who reside within the limits of the State, unless it be shown that they have actual notice of the proceeding.

SEC. 601.  The District Court or Judge thereof in vacation, may grant a supersedeas, to have effect until final judgment, upon condition that the party filing the complaint shall cause to be filed with the Clerk of the District Court an obligation, payable to the Chief Justice of the county, in such sum as the Judge granting such order shall direct, with one or more sufficient sureties, to be approved by the Clerk, to the effect that the party applying shall perform the orders and judgment which the District Court shall make therein, in case the decision be against him.  Such supersedeas shall issue without bond, where the application is made by an executor, administrator or guardian, except where the controversy is respecting the right to administer, or the settlement of the estate.

SEC. 602.  Where a certified copy of the proceedings, owing to the emergency of the case, is not filed with the complaint, it may be filed afterwards; or the District Court or Judge thereof may grant an order for a writ of certiorari to be directed to the county Court, to certify a copy of the proceedings complained of to the District Court.  Any party may file a certified copy of other proceedings of the county Court, connected with the subject matter; and if found to be pertinent, the expense of the copy shall be taxed in the costs.

SEC. 603.  Such complaint shall not be filed after two years from the time of the proceedings that are sought to be revised or corrected, saving to persons of unsound mind, infants and married women, two years within which to file such complaint, after the removal of their respective disabilities.

SEC. 604.  All the matters in controversy in such proceeding shall be tried anew as in the county Court, except that either party may demand a jury to try issues of fact, to be made up under the direction of the Court.

SEC. 605.  There shall be no judgment of non-suit or default, but either party may proceed in the absence of the other.

SEC. 606.  Appeals from county Courts shall be tried anew, in the District Court; but either party may demand a jury to try issues of fact, to be made up under the direction of the Court.

SEC. 607.  The costs shall be at the discretion of the Court.

SEC. 608.  Where no good cause existed for appeal or supersedeas, damages not exceeding ten per cent on the amount involved may be claimed and recovered.

SEC. 609.  It shall be the duty of the Clerk on the application of either party, to issue a subpoena to the Clerk of the County Court, commanding him to bring into the District Court any original  papers in his office, that may be needed for the purposes of the trial.

SEC. 610.  All judgments rendered in such cases, shall be certified to the county Court to be carried into execution, except that so far as such judgments allow costs or damages for the appeal or other proceeding, they shall be carried into execution as other judgments in the District Courts.

Title XII.  Revision of proceedings of courts of justices of the peace.

SEC. 611.  After final judgment in a Court of a Justice of the Peace, the suit or proceeding may be removed for trial anew, to the District Court, by writ of certiorari in the manner herein directed.

SEC. 612.  The writ of certiorari shall be issued by order of the Court or District Judge.

SEC. 613.  It shall command the Justice of the Peace to make and certify a copy of the entries in the cause, on his docket, and transmit the same, with the papers in his possession, to the District Court, forthwith.

SEC. 614.  The writ shall not be granted unless the party applying for the same, or some person for him having knowledge of the facts, shall make affidavit in writing, setting forth sufficient cause to entitle him thereto.  In order to constitute sufficient cause, the facts stated must show either that the Justice of the Peace had not jurisdiction, or that injustice was done to the applicant, by the final determination of the suit or proceeding, and that such injustice was not caused by his own inexcusable neglect.

SEC. 615.  Such writ shall not be granted after six months from the final judgment of the Justice of the Peace.

SEC. 616.  The writ shall not be issued, unless the party applying, the first cause to be filed a bond with one or more sufficient sureties to be approved by the Clerk, payable to the adverse party, for such sum as the Judge shall direct, to the effect that the party applying will perform the judgment of the District Court, if the same shall be against him.

SEC. 617.  The bond and affidavit, with the order of the Judge when made in vacation, shall be filed.

SEC. 618.  As soon as such affidavit, order of the Judge, and bond shall have been filed, the Clerk shall issue a writ of certiorari, directed to the Sheriff of the county, commanding him to cite the Justice of the Peace, by serving him with a copy of such writ, to make out a certified transcript of all the entries in the cause on his docket, and transmit the same with all the original papers, to the District Court, on or before the first day of the term next thereafter; and the Clerk shall issue a citation to the adverse party, as in other cases; and upon service of such writ of certiorari being made upon the Justice of the Peace, he shall stay further proceedings on the judgment, and forthwith comply with said writ; but if there be not time for the transcript and papers to be filed at such first term, then they shall be so filed at the next succeeding term of said Court.

SEC. 619.  The proceedings shall be docketed in the name of the original plaintiff as plaintiff, and of the original defendant as defendant.

SEC. 620.  At the first term of the Court, after the return of the certiorari, the adverse party may move to dismiss the certiorari, for want of sufficient cause appearing in the affidavit.

SEC. 621.  If the certiorari be dismissed, the judgment of the Justice stand for execution; no amendment of the affidavit or new affidavit being allowable.

SEC. 622.  If a motion to dismiss be not made at the first term, or if such motion be made and overruled, the proceeding stands for trial anew.

SEC. 623.  No pleadings shall be necessary in such proceeding, but issues of fact where the case is to be tried by a jury, may be made up under the direction of the Court.

SEC. 624.  Where the certiorari was obtained by the party against whom judgment was rendered in the Justice’s Court, if the verdict or decision in the District Court be against him and for the same or a greater amount, the Court shall add damages at the rate of ten per cent on the amount of the verdict or decision; and the judgment shall be rendered against such party and the surety on his bond, including the costs of the District Court and the Justice’s Court.

SEC. 625.  But if the verdict or decision be against him for a less amount, then such party shall recover the costs in the District Court, but shall pay the costs of the Justice’s Court.

SEC. 626.  Where the certiorari was obtained by the party in whose favor the judgment was rendered in the Justice’s Court, and the verdict or decision in the District Court is in his favor and for a larger amount than the judgment of the Justice’s Court, exclusive of interest since accruing, he shall recover his costs in both Courts.

SEC. 627.  But if the verdict or decision in the District Court be in his favor for the same or a less amount than the judgment of the Justice’s Court, he shall only recover the costs of the Justice’s Court, and shall pay the costs of the District Court.

Title XII.  Execution.

Chapter 1.  Execution in general.

SEC. 628.  Executions issued or to be issued on judgments founded on debts and other legal liabilities, contracted and incurred before the first day of May, one thousand eight hundred and forty-two, shall remain subject, as heretofore, to the provisions of sections seventeen, eighteen and nineteen, of the Act of January 27, 1842, to reduce into one and amend the several Acts concerning executions.

SEC. 629.  Any party, in whose favor judgment has been heretofore or shall hereafter be rendered, may, at any time within five years after the entry of judgment, proceed to enforce the same as prescribed in this Title.

SEC. 630.  After the lapse of five years from the entry of judgment, an execution can be issued only on leave of Court, upon motion, after citation to the adverse party, as in an original suit; such leave shall not be given, unless it be established by the oath of the party, or other satisfactory proof, that the judgment or some part thereof, remains unsatisfied and due.

SEC. 631.  In case of the death of a judgment debtor, execution shall not issue thereon, but the judgment shall be paid in due course of administration.

SEC. 632.  In case of the death of one or more of several judgment debtors, the satisfaction of the judgment may be enforced by execution against the property of the survivor or survivors, although the latter may have been merely sureties of the deceased.

SEC. 633.  Where a judgment debtor dies, pending a motion for leave to issue execution, the proceedings and judgment on the motion, shall be same as in original suits in such cases.

SEC. 634.  After the close of the administration of a judgment debtor, and within one year; or at any time where the estate of the judgment debtor is insolvent; the judgment creditor may, by motion, cause the purchaser or tenant of real property which is subject to the lien of the judgment, but which was sold by the judgment debtor in his lifetime, to be cited to show cause why the judgment should not be enforced against such real property.

SEC. 635.  The judgment creditor, his representative or attorney, shall file an affidavit in such case, that the judgment has not been satisfied, to the best of his knowledge, information and belief, and shall specify the amount due thereon, and the property sought to be charged.

SEC. 636. In case of the death of the judgment creditor, or where an executor, administrator, or trustee of an express trust dies, or ceases to be such executor, administrator or trustee of an express trust, the representative or successor may file with the Clerk a certified copy of his letters of administration, or a sworn copy of his appointment as trustee, and thereupon take execution in his own name as executor, administrator or trustee, without further proceeding to revive the judgment.

SEC. 637.  Where a judgment requires the payment of money or the delivery of real or personal property, the same may be enforced in those respects by execution, as provided in this Title; where it requires the performance of any other act, a certified copy of the judgment may be served upon the party against whom is required thereby, or by law, to obey the same, and his obedience thereto enforced, by distraining his property and imprisoning his person until he comply.

SEC. 638.  An order or judgment for the payment of money by the husband, for the wife’s support, may be enforced by execution against the property of the husband or of the community, or, if no such property can be found, by imprisoning the husband until the money is paid, unless it be found, upon issue tendered by the husband, that he is not able to make the payment, or part thereof unpaid.

SEC. 639.  Where the execution requires the Sheriff to satisfy the judgment out of the property of the debtor, it shall be issued in the first instance to the county in which the judgment is rendered; and upon the return thereof, that no property can be found, or not sufficient to satisfy the same, execution may be issued to any other county in the State.

SEC. 640.  Where the execution requires the sale or delivery of specific real or personal property, it must be issued to the county where the property, or some part thereof, is situated.

SEC. 641.  Executions which require only the delivery of real or personal property, or both, may be issued at the same time to different counties.

SEC. 642.  The execution must issue in the name of the State, and be directed to the Sheriff of the county, sealed with the seal, and attested by the Clerk of the Court.  It must intelligibly refer to the judgment; stating the Court where, and the time when rendered, the names of the parties, the amount, if it be for money, and the amount actually due thereon if less than the original amount, and shall have the following requisites:
1.	If the judgment be for money simply, it shall require the Sheriff to satisfy the judgment out of the property of the debtor, subject to execution.
2.	If the judgment commands the sale of particular property for the satisfaction thereof, the execution shall be framed accordingly.
3.	If the judgment be for the delivery of the possession of real or personal property, the execution shall require the Sheriff to deliver the possession of the same, particularly describing it, to the party entitled thereto; and may, at the same time, require the Sheriff to satisfy any costs, damages or rents and profits, recovered by the same judgment, out of the property, subject, to execution, of the party against whom it is rendered.
4.	If the judgment be for the recovery of personal property, or its value, the execution shall command the Sheriff, in case a delivery thereof cannot be had as prescribed in the preceding subdivision, to levy and collect the value thereof for which the judgment was recovered, to be specified therein, of any property liable to the execution, of the party against whom the judgment was rendered.

SEC. 643.  The execution shall be returnable to the first day of the next term of the Court, and shall not be returned before, unless satisfied, or by order of the execution creditor, his agent or attorney, in writing, to be returned therewith; where there is a levy undisposed of at return day, the execution may be retained thirty days in order to dispose of the levy according to law.

SEC. 644.  When an execution is delivered to an officer to be executed, the goods and chattels of such person within the jurisdiction of the officer, shall be bound from the time of the delivery; but if there be several executions, whether issued out of a Court of record or by a Justice of the Peace against the same defendant, in the hands of different officers, that execution, without regard to the time of its delivery, under which the first levy is made, shall have the preference; and all liens created by the prior delivery of any other execution, in such cases, shall be divested in favor of the execution first levied.
	W

SEC. 645.  The lien given by the preceding Article shall cease at the return day of the execution, as to all goods and chattels upon which levy has not been made.

SEC. 646.  The Sheriff receiving an execution shall endorse thereon the time when he received it, and if he receives more than one on the same day, against the same person, he shall number them as received; and, on failure, or in case of false endorsement, he and his sureties shall be liable, on motion in the Court from whence the execution issued, five days notice being given, to a judgment in favor of the plaintiff in execution for ten percent. on the amount of the execution, together with such damages as the plaintiff in execution may have sustained by such failure or false indorsement.

SEC. 647.  If it appear upon the face of an execution, or by the indorsement of the Clerk, that of those against whom it issued, any one if surety for another, the property of the principal shall be first sold, unless the surety shall direct otherwise.

SEC. 648.  If the Sheriff die, or go out of office, before the return of any execution, his successor or other officer authorized to discharge the duties of the office in such case, shall proceed thereon in the same manner that the Sheriff should have done.

Chapter II. Levy.

SEC. 649.  When an execution against the property of any person is issued to the Sheriff, he shall proceed without unreasonable delay, to levy the same upon the property of the defendant, not exempt from execution.

SEC. 650.  The Sheriff shall first call upon the defendant, if he can be found, of if absent upon his agent, if known, to point out property to be levied on; and a levy shall first be made upon the property that if it be personal property, the defendant or his agent deliver the same into the Sheriff’s possession, or if it be real estate, that he deliver to the Sheriff the evidence of title thereto, and that it be situated in whole or in part within the county.  If, in the opinion of the Sheriff, the property so designated will not sell for enough to satisfy the execution and costs of sale, he shall notify the defendant or his agent thereof; whereupon the latter may make an additional designation.

SEC. 651.  If no property be thus designated, or if an insufficient amount of property be designated, it shall be the duty of the Sheriff to levy the execution upon any property of the debtor, which can be found, subject to execution.

SEC. 652.  A defendant in execution cannot point out property which he has sold, mortgaged or conveyed in trust, or which has been sold on execution against him, although the same be subject to the lien of the judgment.

SEC. 653.  Property which the judgment debtor has sold, mortgaged or conveyed in trust, or which has been sold on execution against him, shall not be seized in execution, and if seized shall be released, if the purchaser, mortgagee or trustee will point out other property in the county sufficient to satisfy the execution.

SEC. 654.  In order to make a levy on real estate, it shall not be necessary for the Sheriff to go upon the ground.

SEC. 655.  A levy upon personal property is made taking possession thereof, where the defendant in execution is entitled to the possession; where the defendant in execution has an interest in personal property, but is not entitled to the possession thereof, a levy is made thereon, by giving notice thereof to the person who is entitled to the possession, or one of them where there are several.

SEC. 656.  A levy on the stock of any corporation or company, is made by leaving a notice thereof with the officer or officers of the corporation or company.

SEC. 657.  A levy upon the interest of a partner, in partnership property, is made by leaving a notice with one or more of the partners, or with a clerk of the partnership.

SEC. 658.  Current coin may be levied upon and returned on execution, without sale, as so much money collected.

SEC. 659.  Bills, notes, drafts and checks, or other evidences of debt, issued by any moneyed corporation or by this State, or the United States, may be levied upon as personal property, and sold on execution.

SEC. 660.  Goods and chattels pledged, assigned, or mortgaged, as security for any debt or contract, may be levied upon and sold on execution against the person making the pledge, assignment or mortgage, subject thereto; and the purchaser shall be entitled to the possession, on complying with the conditions of the pledge, assignment or mortgage.

SEC. 661.  Where a woman slave is levied in execution, the levy shall also be made upon her children, if any, under ten years of age, belonging to the execution defendant.

SEC. 662.  Shares of stock, in any corporation, or company, may be levied on and sold in the county where the office and books showing the shares of stock and stockholders of the corporation or company are kept; and the Sheriff shall transfer the stock to the purchaser, subject to the rights of the corporation or company.  The Sheriff shall have access to the books of any corporation or company in his county, for the purpose of making the levy; and if refused access, the Court shall enforce the right.  The shares of stock subject to be levied upon, shall be bound by the execution from the time it is delivered to the Sheriff; when such levy is made, the Sheriff shall leave a notice thereof with the officers of the corporation or company.

SEC. 663.  Any debt or thing in action, legally or equitably assignable, may be levied upon when voluntarily given up by the defendant, and sold on execution, in the same manner as other personal property.

SEC. 664.  The Sheriff, making the sale of any such debt or thing in action, shall assign and deliver the same to the purchaser, and the assignment shall have the same effect as if made by the execution defendant at the time of making the levy thereon, and shall be treated as so made.

SEC. 665.  Where a complaint, answer or reply is founded in whole or in part upon such assignment, it shall not be necessary to plead or prove any judgment or execution, by virtue of which the sale was made, nor to prove the execution of the assignment, unless such judgment, execution or assignment be denied under oath.

SEC. 666.  If the Sheriff who levied or is required to levy an execution upon personal property, (unless it be such personal property as he is not required to take actual possession of,) doubts whether it is subject to the execution, he may give to the plaintiff therein, his agent or attorney, notice that an indemnifying bond is required.  Bond may thereupon be given by or for the plaintiff, with one or more sufficient sureties to be approved by the officer, to the effect that the obligors therein will indemnify him against the damages which he may sustain in consequence of the seizure or sale of the property, and will pay to any claimant thereof the damages he may sustain in consequence of the seizure or sale.  The taking of such bond shall be stated by the Sheriff in his return, and the bond, if there be no claim of property, shall be returned with the execution; if there be a claim of property, it shall be returned with the oath and bond of the claimant.

SEC. 667.  If the bond mentioned in the preceding Article be not given, the Sheriff may refuse to levy the execution on that property; or, if it has been levied, and the bond be not given in a reasonable time after it is required by the officer, he may restore the property to the person from whose possession it was taken, and the levy shall stand discharged.

SEC. 668.  The claimant of any property, for the seizure or sale of which an indemnifying bond has been taken and returned by the Sheriff, shall be barred of any suit against the Sheriff, if the surety in the bond was good when it was taken.  And such claimant may maintain a suit upon the bond and recover such damages as he may be entitled to.

SEC. 669.  The Sheriff shall keep securely all personal property levied on by him, for which no delivery bond has been given; and if any injury or loss should result to any party interested, by his negligence, he and his sureties shall be liable to pay the value of the property so lost, or the amount of injury sustained, and ten percent thereon, to be recovered by the party injured, on motion five days notice being given, in the Court from which the execution issued.

SEC. 670.  The Sheriff shall be authorized to retain out of the proceeds of personal property sold upon execution, all reasonable expenses incurred by him in making the levy and keeping the property. 

Chapter III. Delivery Bonds.

SEC. 671.  Any personal property taken in execution may be returned to the execution defendant by the Sheriff, upon the delivery by the defendant to him, of a bond, payable to the execution plaintiff, with one or more sufficient sureties to be approved by the Sheriff, to the effect that the property shall be delivered to the Sheriff at the time and place named in the bond, to be sold according to law, or for the payment to the Sheriff of the fair value thereof, which shall be stated in the bond.

SEC. 672.  Where property has been replevied as provided in the preceding Article, the defendant may sell or dispose of the same, paying the officer the stipulated value thereof.

SEC. 673.  In case of the non-delivery of the property according to the bond, it shall be the duty of the Sheriff to levy upon and sell the same or any other property of the defendant, as soon as practicable, at any time before the return day of execution.

SEC. 674.  Upon a forfeiture of the bond, the Sheriff shall forthwith return it endorsed “forfeited” to the Clerk’s office; whereupon, if the judgment remain unsatisfied in whole or in part, the Clerk shall issue execution against the principal debtor and the surety or sureties in the bond, for the amount due, not exceeding the stipulated value of the property; upon which said execution no bond for delivery of the property shall be taken; which fact shall be indorsed by the Clerk on the execution.

Chapter IV. Sale.

SEC. 675.  Real property and slaves taken by virtue of any execution, shall be sold at public auction at the Court house door of the county, on the first Tuesday of the month, between the hours of ten o’clock A.M. and four o’clock, P.M.

SEC. 676.  If real property taken in execution consist of several lots, tracts or parcels, each shall be offered separately; and no more of any real estate shall be offered for sale, than shall be necessary to satisfy the execution, unless the same be not susceptible of division.

SEC. 677.  Where slaves levied on consist of families, they shall be sold in families; but children over ten years of age may be sold separately.

SEC. 678.  The time and place of making sale of real estate or slaves, on execution, shall be publicly advertised by the Sheriff for at least twenty days successively next before the day of sale, by posting up written or printed notices thereof, at three public places in the county, one of which shall be at the door of the Court house of the County, and also by advertising the same for three weeks successively in a newspaper, if there be one regularly printed in the county; provided the expense of printing do not exceed three dollars.

SEC. 679.  By Court house door of a county is meant the exterior entrance of the house provided by the proper authority for the holding of the District Court; and where, from any cause, there is no such house, the door of the house where the District Court was last held in that county, shall be deemed to be the Court house door.  Where the Court house or house used by the court has been destroyed by fire or other cause, and another has not been designated by the proper authority, the place shall nevertheless be deemed to be the Court house door.

SEC. 680.  Personal property, other than slaves, taken in execution shall be sold on the premises where it is taken in execution or at the Court house door of the county; or at some other public place, if owing to the nature of the property, it is inconvenient to exhibit it to purchasers, at the Court house door.

SEC. 681.  Previous notice of the time and place of the sale of any property, other than slaves, on execution, shall be given for ten days successively, by posting up written or printed notices thereof in at least three public places in the county, one of which shall be at the Court house door of the county.

SEC. 682.  Personal property shall not be sold unless the same be present and subject to the view of those attending the sale, where it is susceptible of being thus exhibited; except in cases where the defendant in execution has merely an interest, without right to the exclusive possession, in which case the interest of the defendant may be sold and conveyed, without other presence or delivery of the property.

SEC. 683.  Where the property levied on does not sell for enough to satisfy the execution, the Sheriff shall proceed anew, as in the first instance, to make the residue.

SEC. 684.  Upon the sale of real estate or slaves by virtue of an execution, and the payment of the purchase money, the Sheriff making the sale, or in case of his death or going out of office, his successor or any officer authorized to discharge the duties of the office, shall execute and deliver to the purchaser a deed of conveyance for the same, which shall be valid and effectual to convey to the purchaser, all the right, title and interest of the execution debtor.
SEC. 685.  In case the purchaser of any real estate or slaves upon execution, having paid the purchase money therefor, shall die before a deed of conveyance shall have been executed to him, the Sheriff shall convey such real estate or slaves to the purchaser nevertheless; and the conveyance shall have the same effect as if it had been executed in the lifetime of the purchaser.

SEC. 686.  A purchaser at Sheriff’s sale, shall be deemed to be innocent purchaser without notice, in all cases where he would be deemed to be such, had the sale been made voluntarily by the execution defendant in person.

SEC. 687.  Any Sheriff who shall sell any property without giving the previous notice herein directed, or shall see the same otherwise than in the manner herein prescribed, shall forfeit and pay to the party injured not less than ten nor more than two hundred dollars, in addition to such other damages as the party may have sustained, to be recovered from the Sheriff, or from him and his sureties, in a suit on his official bond.

SEC. 688.  If any Sheriff making sale of property on execution, or his deputy, shall directly or indirectly purchase the same, the sale shall be void.

SEC. 689.  If any person shall bid off property at any sale made by virtue of an execution, and shall fail to comply with the terms of the sale, he shall be liable, on motion, to be made by the Sheriff, or the execution plaintiff in the Court whence the execution issued, five days notice being given, to a judgment for the amount of the purchase money, and damages not exceeding ten per cent and interest, with costs.

SEC. 690.  Or the Sheriff may re-expose and sell the property, on the same day if there be sufficient time; if not, he may re advertise the same; and if the amount bid at the second sale, shall not equal the amount bid at the first sale, and the costs of the second sale, the first purchaser shall be liable for the deficiency and damages thereon, not exceeding ten per cent and interest and costs, to be recovered by a like notice and motion, as provided in the preceding Article; provided, that if the execution has been satisfied, the motion shall be made by the defendant in execution.

SEC. 691.  When an execution is issued to any county other than the one in which the judgment is rendered, return may be made by mail; but money cannot by thus sent, except by direction of the party thereto, or his attorney.

Chapter V.  Sheriff to pay over money – his liability and return.

SEC. 692.  Real property which is sold on execution, remains subject to any judgments or other liens which are prior in point of time to the lien of the judgment under which the sale is made.

SEC. 693.  Personal property which is sold on execution, passes to the purchaser discharged of any lien, right or claim, that is subsequent to the delivery to the Sheriff of the execution, the lien of which first attached.

SEC. 694.  Money made on execution, out of personal property, must be first applied to the execution first delivered to the Sheriff, except where such creditor refused to give an indemnifying bond, and the same was given by one having a later execution; money made out of real estate, shall be applied to the execution under which the sale is made.

SEC. 695.  When the Sheriff has collected money on execution, he shall pay over the same at the earliest opportunity.

SEC. 696.  If any Sheriff shall neglect or refuse to levy upon or sell any property justly liable to execution, when the same might have been done, he and his sureties shall be liable to the execution creditor, in a suit on his official bond, for the value of such property, not be exceed the amount necessary to satisfy the execution and costs.

SEC. 697.  If any Sheriff shall neglect or refuse to return any execution, as required by law, or shall make a false return thereon, he and his sureties shall be liable to the execution creditor, in a suit on his official bond, for such amount as he might and should have levied by virtue of the execution, and damages thereon not exceeding ten percent.

SEC. 698.  If any Sheriff shall neglect or refuse, on demand, to pay over any money collected on execution, to the execution creditor, his agent or attorney, or to the execution debtor, when he is entitled thereto, he and his sureties shall be liable on motion in the Court from which the execution issued, five days notice being given, to a judgment in favor of the plaintiff in execution, or of the defendant in execution, as the case may be, for the amount thus withheld, and ten per cent damages, interest and costs.

SEC. 699.  Where property is sold on execution for more than will satisfy the execution or the executions in the hands of the Sheriff, including interest and costs, the Sheriff shall pay the surplus to the execution debtor, of whom it was levied, or his assigns; unless he be notified by some other person, that such surplus is claimed by virtue of a junior judgment or other lien.

SEC. 700.  Every execution shall be returned forthwith, upon being satisfied by the collection of the money; or, upon order of the plaintiff or his attorney endorsed thereon.

SEC. 701.  The death of the defendant, after the execution is placed in the hands of the Sheriff to be executed, shall operate as a supersedeas thereof; but the lien of the execution shall be recognized and enforced by the county Court, in the payment of the debts of the deceased.

Chapter VI.  Execution Docket.

SEC. 702.  The Clerk shall keep an execution docket, in which he shall enter a statement of all executions, as they are issued by him, specifying the names of the parties, the amount of the judgment, the amount due thereon, the rate of interest where it exceeds eight per cent, the costs, the date of issuing the execution, to whom delivered, and the return of the Sheriff thereon, with the date of such return; and such docket entries shall be taken and deemed to be a record.

SEC. 703.  Any Clerk who shall fail to keep such a docket, or shall neglect to make the entries, shall be liable to any person injured, for the amount of damages sustained by such neglect, to be recovered in a suit against him and his sureties, on his official bond.

Chapter VII.  Proceedings supplementary to execution.

SEC. 704.  When an execution which requires the Sheriff to satisfy the same out of the property of the debtor is returned unsatisfied after a demand on the defendant or his agent to point out property, the judgment creditor, at any time after such return made, is entitled to an order from the Judge of the Court, requiring such judgment debtor to appear and answer concerning his property, before such Judge, at a time and place specified in the order, within the county where such judgment debtor resides, or where the execution issued.

SEC. 705.  After the issue of an execution which requires the Sheriff to satisfy the same out of the property of the debtor, and upon proof by affidavit of a party or otherwise, to the satisfaction of the Court or Judge, that any judgment debtor has property which he unjustly refuses to apply towards the satisfaction of the judgment, such Court or Judge may, by an order, require the judgment debtor to appear and answer concerning his property, before such county where such judgment debtor resides, or where the execution issued.

SEC. 706.  On an examination under the two preceding Articles, either party may examine witnesses in his behalf, and the judgment debtor may be examined in the same manner as a witness.

SEC. 707.  Instead of the order requiring the attendance of the judgment debtor, the Judge may, upon proof by affidavit or other wise, to his satisfaction, that there is danger of the debtor’s leaving the State, or concealing himself, and that there is reason to believe that he has property which he unjustly refuses to apply to such judgment, issue a warrant requiring the Sheriff of any county where such debtor may be, to arrest him and bring him before such Judge, in the country where the execution issued, or where such debtor resides.  Upon being brought before the Judge he may be examined on oath, and if it then appear that there is danger of the debtor’s leaving the State, and that he has property which he has unjustly refused to apply to such judgment, he may be ordered to give bond, with one or more sureties, that he will from time to time attend before the Judge as he shall direct, and that he will not, during the pendency of the proceedings, dispose of any portion of his property, not exempt from execution.  In default of entering into such bond, he may be committed to prison by warrant or the Judge, pending the adjournments of such examination, until the same be finished.

SEC. 708.  If it appear that a person or corporation alleged to have property of the judgment debtor, or to be indebted to him, claims an interest in the property adverse to him, or denies the debt, such person or the chief officer or managing agent of such corporation may be ordered to be and appear at the next term of the Court, when called, to form an issue and try the fact, and in the meantime to refrain from transferring or otherwise disposing of such property or interest; but such order may be modified or dissolved by the Judge granting the same, at any time, on such security as he shall direct.  The proceedings in such cases shall be similar to the proceedings on return of a writ of garnishment on original attachment.

SEC. 709.  No personal shall, on examination pursuant to this Chapter, be excused from answering any question, on the ground that his examination will tend to convict him of the commission of a fraud; but his answer shall not be used as evidence against him in any criminal proceeding or prosecution.

SEC. 710.  After the issue of an execution which requires the Sheriff to satisfy the same out of the property of the judgment debtor, any person indebted to such judgment debtor may pay to the Sheriff the amount of his debt, or so much thereof as shall be necessary to satisfy the execution; and the Sheriff’s receipt shall be a sufficient discharge for the amount so paid.

SEC. 711.  Where the defendant in execution fails to point out property sufficient to satisfy the execution, the plaintiff in execution, his agent or attorney, may make an affidavit and deliver it to the Sheriff, that such affiant has just reason to believe that another person or persons, is, or are, indebted to said defendant or defendants or one of them or hath, or have, effects of such defendant, or defendants, or one of them, in his or her hands; whereupon the Sheriff shall prepare a copy of such affidavit, for each person and endorse thereon as follows: [name of the person.] - “Take notice, that unless you appear at the next term of the District Court in and for the county of [county whence the execution issued] to answer touching the matters herein, execution will issue against you for [amount due on the execution] that being the amount due from [defendant in execution] to [plaintiff in execution.]  And you are further notified to retain said amount, or property to the value of said amount, of the property of said [defendant in execution] now in your possession, to satisfy said execution,” and sign the same officially, and deliver it to such person, and make return accordingly; and thereupon the Court shall examine and proceed against said garnishee or garnishees in the same manner as prescribed by law, against garnishees in original attachments.

SEC. 712.  Where the garnishee resides in a county other than that from which the execution issues, the notice to him to appear shall state that he must appear in person by affidavit stating whether or not he is indebted to the defendant or defendants in execution or either of them and how much; and whether or not he has any and what effects of such defendant or defendants, or either of them, in his hands.

SEC. 713.  Witnesses may be required to appear and testify on any proceedings under this Chapter, in the same manner as upon the trial of an issue.

SEC. 714.  All examinations and answers under this Chapter, shall be on oath; and when a corporation answers, the answer shall be on oath of an officer thereof.

SEC. 715.  The Judge may order any property of the judgment debtor, not exempt from execution, in the hands either of himself or any other person, or due to the judgment debtor, to be applied towards the satisfaction of the judgment.

SEC. 716.  The Judge may allow to the judgment creditor, or to any party so examined, whether a party to the suit or not, witness fees and disbursements.
Chapter VIII.  Of property exempt from execution or forced sale.

SEC. 717.  The following property shall be reserved to families, exempt from execution and every species of forced sale, except for the purchase money or a part thereof:
1.	The homestead, not to exceed two hundred acres of land, not included in a town or city.
2.	The homestead, not exceeding two thousand dollars in value, if included in a town or city.
3.	Implements of husbandry not exceeding in value one hundred dollars.
4.	Household and kitchen furniture, not to exceed in value two hundred and fifty dollars.
5.	The tools, apparatus and books belonging to the trade or profession of the debtor.
6.	Five milch cows, twenty hogs, and one yoke of work oxen or one horse.
7.	Provisions for one year, not to exceed in value three hundred dollars.
8.	The earnings of the debtor for personal services rendered within six months preceding the levy thereon.

SEC. 718.  A family is composed of,
1.	Husband and wife and their children, if any, under twenty-one years of age, and unmarried.
2.	A surviving husband or wife and children of the marriage under twenty one years of age and unmarried.
3.	A husband or wife who has been divorced, and a child or children of the marriage, assigned to him or her by the decree of divorce, who are under twenty-one years of age and unmarried.
4.	A mother and her child or children, under twenty-one years of age and unmarried.
5.	In the term children, are included all descendants. 

SEC. 719.  A family is dissolved by the divorce of husband and wife, or by the death, coming of age, or marriage, of any member, after which the constituents required by the preceding Article do not remain.

SEC. 720.  When a family is dissolved, the property exempt from execution or forced sale, passes to the constituents or to the survivors, exempt from any liability incurred pending the existence of the family.  The said property thereupon ceases to be exempt from execution and forced sale, for liabilities afterwards incurred unless those to whom it passes can claim such exemption under Article 717 or 721.

SEC. 721.  The following property shall be reserved to persons who are not constituents of a family, exempt from execution and every species of forced sale, except for the purchase money, or a part thereof:
1.	The homestead of such person, not to exceed one hundred acres of land, not included in a town or city.
2.	The homestead of such person, not exceeding one thousand dollars in value, if included in a town or city.
3.	Implements of husbandry, not exceeding fifty dollars in value.
4.	Household and kitchen furniture, not to exceed in value one hundred and twenty-five dollars.
5.	The tools, apparatus and books belonging to the trade or profession of such person.
6.	Two milch cows, ten hogs, and one yoke of work oxen or one horse.
7.	Provisions for six months not exceeding fifty dollars in value.
8.	The earnings of such person for personal services rendered at any time within three months next preceding a levy thereon.

SEC. 722.  If any lot or lots in a town or city, being the homestead of a family, shall, with the improvements thereon, exceed in value the sum of two thousand dollars, or being the homestead of any person who is not a constituent of a family, shall, with the improvements thereon, exceed in value one thousand dollars, - and such person, or the head of such family, shall fail or refuse to point out other property in this State, subject to execution, any judgment creditor of such person or of the head of such family, may, upon motion in the District Court of the county in which such homestead is situated, after five days notice, to be served in same manner as citation, obtain an order for the sale of the same.

SEC. 723.  Such sale, although ordered, shall not be made, unless the amount bid exceed the value of the homestead exempted from forced sale; and the surplus only shall be applied to the judgment or judgments or other lien, according to their priority, as in other cases.

SEC. 724.  The two thousand dollars, or the one thousand, as the case may be, shall belong to the family or person whose homestead was sold, exempt in the same manner as the homestead, while it continues the same.

SEC. 725.  Where a husband is the head of a family, or where children under twenty one years of age and unmarried, constitute a part thereof, the Court shall make such order as will ensure the investment of the two thousand dollars in another homestead.

SEC. 726.  Where there is more personal property of the same kind than is exempt from execution, the head of the family or other person may point out the parts to be levied on; but if he fail to do so, the officer making the levy may select, taking care to leave the amount of each sort, exempt from forced sale.

SEC. 727.  The provisions of this Chapter, so far as they extend the exemption beyond that heretofore established by the law and the Constitution, shall apply to such liabilities only as shall be incurred after this Act shall take affect.

Title XIV. Evidence.

Chapter I. By whom to be produced.

SEC. 728.  The party holding the affirmative of an issue, must produce the evidence to prove it.

SEC. 729.  The burden of proof in the whole suit lies, on the party who would be defeated, if no evidence were given on either side.

Chapter II. Process to compel witnesses to attend and testify.

SEC. 730.  When a suit is pending, it shall be the duty of the Clerk, at the request of either party, his agent or attorney, to issue a subpoena directed to any officer of the county where the cause is pending, whose duty it may be to execute the same, commanding him to summon any witness therein named, who may be in said county.
	Z

SEC. 731.  If the attendance of a witness is required before a Judge, a Commissioner to take depositions, a Justice of the Peace, or other officer authorized by law to administer oaths or take the testimony of affidavit of witnesses, under the authority of this State, such Judge, Commissioner, Justice of the Peace, or other officer, shall have power to issue subpoenas for such witnesses, and must sign the same officially.

SEC. 732.  Every subpoena shall state the time and place at which the witness is required to attend; and when issued for a witness, to give evidence in a cause pending in Court it shall state the names of the parties to the suit, and shall designate the party at whose instance the witness is subpoenaed.  All the witnesses for the same party may be included in one subpoena.

SEC. 733.  The subpoena may require the witness to bring with him any books, writing, or other thing, under his control, which he may be bound by law to produce in evidence.

SEC. 734.  A subpoena may be served by a Sheriff or his deputy, a Coroner or Constable, whose return shall be proof of service; or it may be served by any white person over sixteen years of age, whose affidavit shall be presumptive evidence of service; or the witness may acknowledge service, in waiting on the subpoena.

SEC. 735.  Service of a subpoena may be made by reading it to the witness, or by delivering to him an attested copy, or a ticket containing its substance.

SEC. 736.  A person, present before any Court or officer who has power to take his testimony or affidavit, may be required to testify as though he had been regularly subpoenaed.

SEC. 737.  A subpoena shall not be issued to be sent beyond the limits of the county in which the witness is required to attend, unless the party, his agent or attorney, shall file with the Clerk or officer issuing the same, an affidavit stating that the testimony of the witness is material and his personal attendance necessary.

SEC. 738.  A witness shall not be compelled to obey a subpoena to go out of the county of his residence, or in which he may be staying, unless his mileage and fee for at least one day’s attendance be previously tendered him.

SEC. 739.  A witness who resides in the county where he is required to attend, or who is staying therein when his attendance is required, shall not be compelled to obey a subpoena, if he demand his mileage and fee for one day’s attendance and the same be not paid him.  Such demand must be made upon the party, if he be in the county; if not, it may be made upon his attorney.

SEC. 740.  A witness, whether residing within or without the county where he is required to attend, shall not be compelled to continue his attendance, if he demand his fee for each day as it becomes due, and the same be not paid him.  Such demand may be made as provided in the preceding Article.

SEC. 741.  Where a witness, who resides or is staying out of the county in which his attendance is required, fails to attend in obedience to the subpoena, and it satisfactorily appears that his mileage and fee for at least one day’s attendance have been tendered him, a warrant may be issued for arresting and bringing him before the Court or officer, to give his testimony and answer for the contempt.

SEC. 742.  Where a witness, who is residing or staying in the county where his attendance is required, fails to attend in obedience to the subpoena; or, where a witness, whether residing within or without such county, fails to continue his attendance as required by Article 745, a warrant may be issued in the same manner provided in the preceding Article.  But before such warrant shall issue, it must satisfactorily appear that his failure to continue his attendance was not caused by the refusal of the party at whose instance he was subpoenaed, or his attorney, to pay the fees of such witness as prescribed in Article 739.

SEC. 743.  If the warrant mentioned in either of the two preceding Articles does not require the witness to be immediately brought before the Court or officer, a sum shall be fixed, in which the witness may give bond with surety for his appearance; and, if no sum be fixed by the Court or officer, it shall be one hundred dollars.

SEC. 744.  When a witness is brought before a Court for contempt by disobedience of a subpoena, unless he show reasonable cause for his failure to attend, the Court may summarily order him to pay the party on whose behalf he was subpoenaed, the costs occasioned by the disobedience of the subpoena, not exceeding thirty dollars, besides being liable for any damages occasioned by the failure to attend.

SEC. 745.  Every witness who has been duly subpoenaed shall attend from day to day and from term to term, until discharged by the Court of the officer before whom he was required to attend, or by the party at whose instance he was subpoenaed.

SEC. 746.  When a witness, who has been duly subpoenaed, shall fail to attend in obedience to the subpoena, he may be fined by the Court or officer before whom he is required to attend, in any sum not exceeding one hundred dollars; his attendance may be compelled by attachment, and he shall be also to liable to the injured party in a suit for damages.

SEC. 747.  If any witness, when lawfully called, refuse to be sworn or to testify, or to subscribe to an affidavit or deposition, he shall be imprisoned without bail, by the Court or by the officer before whom he is called, so long as he may so refuse; should the Court before which he is called finally adjourn before he submits, he shall remain in prison until the next term.  But he shall be discharged from imprisonment by the final deposition of the cause.

SEC. 748.  A female shall not be compelled to attend in Court for oral examination as a witness, unless it be made to appear by the affidavit of the party, and the written statement of his attorney, that her testimony is important and that the just and proper effect thereof cannot in a reasonable degree be obtained without an oral examination before the jury.

SEC. 749.  A witness shall be entitled to one dollar and twenty-five cents for each day he may be in actual attendance, and six cents for every mile he may necessarily travel in going to and returning from the place at which he is required to attend.

SEC. 750.  The cost of summoning, and the compensation of witnesses, shall be taxed against the unsuccessful party.  But the successful party shall not be taxed more than the costs and compensation of two witnesses called or summoned to prove the same fact.  Nor shall it be allowed to tax the costs of a witness who is entirely ignorant of the matters in controversy.

Chapter III.  Examination of a party as a witness.

SEC. 751.  When one party may desire to examine the other, he shall have the same process to compel his attendance, or obtain his testimony, which is allowed in the case of any other witness.

SEC. 752.  If a party, who is duly subpoenaed as a witness, fail to attend or refuse to testify, he may be punished as any other witness; or the Court may, in its discretion strike out his pleadings.

SEC. 753.  The answer of the party examined must be directly and fully responsive to the interrogatories propounded; but he may state any other matter so closely connected with such answers, as to qualify and explain them.  If he state more than this, the excess shall be deemed surplusage, and be excluded.

SEC. 754.  Every person for whose immediate benefit a suit is prosecuted or defended, though not a party to the suit, may, at the instance of the adverse party, be examined as a witness, in the same manner, and shall be subject to the same rules, as if he were a party to the suit.

Chapter IV.  Competency of witnesses.

SEC. 755.  The following persons only shall be incompetent to testify:
1.	Children or other persons who do not possess sufficient intellect to relate transactions with respect to which they are interrogated, or who do not understand the obligation of an oath.
2.	Persons who are of unsound mind when produced as witnesses, or who were in that condition when the facts occurred, about which they are called to testify.
3.	Husband and wife, either for or against each other, or concerning any communication made by one to the other, during the marriage, whether called as a witness before or after the dissolution of the marriage.
4.	An attorney, without the client’s consent, concerning any communication relating to the case or controversy, made to him by the client during the existence of that relation, or his advice thereon.
5.	Parties to an issue, in their own right, proposing to testify in their own behalf, or in behalf of those united with them in the issue; except in cases where such parties are competent witnesses at common law.
6.	Slaves or free persons of color, in any suit or proceeding where a white person, in his own right, or as representative of a white person, is a party, except in suits brought to recover a penalty or forfeiture for a violation of law, against a free person of color.
7.	Persons who do not believe in the existence of the Supreme Being.

SEC. 756.  All other objections to witnesses shall go to their credit alone, and be weighed by the jury or tribunal to which their evidence is offered.

SEC. 757.  An inhabitant of a county, city or town, or member of a corporation or religious society, shall be competent to testify in behalf of such county, city, town, corporation, or religious society.

Chapter V.  Mode of administering an oath.

SEC. 758.  The usual mode of administering oaths now prescribed in the State, with the ceremony of holding up the hand, or by placing the hand upon the Gospel and kissing the same, shall be adhered to in all cases, except as hereinafter provided.

SEC. 759.  When the Court or officer before whom any person is to be sworn, shall be satisfied that there is any peculiar mode of swearing, which is more solemn and obligatory in the opinion of such person, the Court or officer may adopt such mode of swearing him, in addition to the mode prescribed in the preceding Article.

SEC. 760.  A Quaker, when called on to take an oath, shall be permitted solemnly and sincerely to affirm, under the pain and penalties of perjury.

SEC. 761.  Every person who shall declare that he has conscientious scruples against taking an oath, shall when called upon for that purpose, be permitted to affirm in the manner prescribed or Quakers; provided that the Court or officer shall, on inquiry, be satisfied of the truth of such declaration.
	A1

Chapter VI.  Affidavits.

SEC. 762.  An affidavit may be made out of this state to be used in this State, before any of the officers authorized by Article 771 to take depositions.

SEC. 763.  An affidavit may be made in this State before a Judge of a Court, a Justice of the Peace, Notary Public, or Clerk of a Court.

SEC. 764.  Whenever, by the provisions of this Code, the affidavit of the plaintiff or defendant is required to verify any pleading, to obtain any order, provisional remedy, or on a motion or proceeding, it may, unless otherwise expressed, be made by the agent or attorney of the party, if the latter be absent from the county; in which case the affidavit shall state his absence, and that the affiant is his agent or attorney.

SEC. 765.  Every affidavit shall be subscribed by the affiant; and the certificate of the officer before whom it is made, shall be written separately, following the signature of the affiant.

Chapter VII.  Depositions.

SECTION 1. When may be used.

SEC. 766.  Depositions of witnesses may be taken by iterogatories, to be read in all suits or proceedings.

SEC. 767.  Any party may read the deposition of a witness in the following cases:
1.	Where the witness is a female.
2.	Where the witness does not reside in the county, and is absent from the place of trial.
3.	Where the witness is absent from the State.
4.	Where by reason of age, infirmity, imprisonment or official duty, the witness is unable to attend Court.
5.	Where the witness is dead.
6.	Where the witness has become of unsound mind.

SEC. 768.  Either party may commence taking depositions immediately after the service of the citation.

SEC. 769.  A party may take the deposition of any witness, which may be used under the circumstances prescribed in Article 767.

SECTION 2.  Officers authorized to take depositions.

SEC. 770.  The following officers of this State shall have authority to take depositions, within their respective counties: A Chief Justice of county, Clerk of a Court, and Notaries Public.

SEC. 771.  Depositions may be taken without the limits of this State, by the following officers: Any Judge of a Court of record, Commissioners appointed by the Governor of this State, Notaries Public, any Clerk of a Court of record.

SECTION 3. Manner of taking depositions.

SEC. 772.  A party wishing to take the deposition of a witness, must cause the opposite party, his agent or attorney, to be served with a copy of the interrogatories to be propounded to the witness, and also with a notice that he will apply for a commission to take the answers of the witness to said interrogatories.  Such notice shall state the name and residence of the witness, and the suit in which the deposition is to used.

SEC. 773.  The party notified, his agent or attorney, may file cross interrogatories to the witness, at any time before the commission issues.

SEC. 774.  If cross interrogatories be not filed, the Clerk shall file the following:
1.	Are you directly or indirectly interested in this suit, and if interested, explain the interest you have.
2.	Are all your statements in the foregoing answers made from your personal knowledge; and if not, do you answers show what are made from your personal knowledge, and what from information and the source of that information.
3.	Have you stated everything you know concerning the subject of this suit, favorable to each party; if not, state it.

SEC. 775.  On or after the fifth day after the personal service of such notice and copy of the interrogatories, on the party or his attorney of record, a commission may be issued by the Clerk to take the testimony, when such service is made in the county in which the cause is pending; but if it is made out of such county, then one additional day shall be allowed for every twenty miles distance it may be from the place at which such cause is pending to that at which service was made, before such commission shall be issued.  Provided that the same may, in all cases, be issued at any time, after the cross interrogatories have been filed.

SEC. 776.  The commission may be directed generally “to any officer authorized to take depositions in or out of this State.”

SEC. 777.  The commission shall have the following requisites:
1.	It shall run in the name of “The State of Texas.”
2.	It shall require any of the officers to whom it may be directed, to cause the witness to come before him, and to take and return his answers to the interrogatories and cross interrogatories, in the manner prescribed in this Chapter.
3.	It shall be attested by the signature of the Clerk and the seal of the Court.

SEC. 778.  Copies of the interrogatories and cross interrogatories shall be annexed to the commission.  And copies of Articles 780, 781, 782, shall be enclosed with the commission, for the instruction of the officer.

SEC. 779.  The officer who receives the commission to take the testimony of a witness within this State, shall, unless the witness voluntarily appear, issue a subpoena for him, and cause him to be summoned to answer the interrogatories at a time and place named in the subpoena; on or after the fifth day after the services thereof.

SEC. 780.  The answers shall be reduced to writing by the officer, or in his presence and under his direction, by the witness or other disinterested person; and, if not written by the witness, shall be read over by him, or carefully read to him.  And they shall then be signed by the witness and sworn to before the officer.

SEC. 781.  The officer taking the deposition shall certify as follows:
1.	The time and place of taking the answers.
2.	That the answers were reduced to writing by him, or in his presence and under his direction by the witness or some other disinterested person, stating by whom written.
3.	That neither party, nor the agent nor attorney of either, was present.
4.	That the witness signed his answers and swore to the truth thereof before him.
5.	That the witness was personally known to him, or that his identity was proved by the affidavit of some credible person who is personally known to him.	
	Such certificate shall be attested by the signature of the officer and the seal of his office or of the Court.

SEC. 782.  The answers, together with the interrogatories, cross-interrogatories, commission, and affidavit of the identity of the witness, if there be any, shall be sealed up by the officer, who shall write his name across the seal, and endorse on the envelope the names of the parties and witnesses, and direct the package to the Clerk or officer that issued the commission.  He shall then deliver the said package to the party at whose instance the testimony was taken, or to any person who will undertake to return the same; or he shall deliver it to the Postmaster or deputy, and cause the latter to endorse thereon that the same was mailed by such officer, naming him.  Such endorsement shall be signed by the Postmaster or his deputy.

SEC. 783.  Depositions may be returned to the Court either by mail or by a party having an interest in them, or by other private conveyance.

SEC. 784.  If the depositions are by any conveyance other than the mail, the person delivering them into Court or to the Clerk thereof, shall make affidavit before the Clerk that he received them from  the officer before whom they were taken; that they have not been out of his possession since; and that they have undergone no alteration; which affidavit shall be endorsed on or annexed to the depositions.

SEC. 785.  The Clerk receiving depositions shall file the same; and if he received them from the post office, he shall endorse the fact thereon, and the date, and sign his name thereto.

SECTION 4.  Depositions taken after notice by publication.

SEC. 786.  If a party to a suit or proceeding desire to take the depositions of one or more witnesses, to be read as evidence therein, and it appear by affidavit filed with the Clerk of the Court in which the cause is pending.
1.	That the adverse party is beyond the limit of the State, or cannot be found, and has no attorney of record within the State; or
2.	That such adverse party has departed this life since the commencement of the suit, and that he has left no attorney of record residing in this State to represent the interest of his estate, and that the persons interested under such deceased party are unknown to the affiant, 
	The party desiring to take such deposition, may file his interrogatories to the witness, with said Clerk, who shall cause a notice to be published in the newspaper published nearest to the place at which the suit is pending, for at least once each week for four successive weeks, stating the number of the suit, the names of the original parties, in what Court the suit is pending, the names and residences of the witnesses to whom the interrogatories are propounded, and that a commission will issue on or after the thirtieth day after the last publication is required to be made, to take the deposition of such witnesses, to be read as evidence in the cause, in behalf of the party asking the same.  On or after said thirtieth day, the commission shall issue as in other cases; and the depositions when taken, shall be as valid as those taken after personal service of the notice and interrogatories.

SECTION 5.  Depositions to perpetuate evidence.

SEC. 787.  When a person may anticipate the institution of a suit in which he may be interested, and shall desire to perpetuate the testimony of any witness or witnesses to be read upon the trial thereof, such person, his agent or attorney, may present a statement in writing, supported by affidavit, to the Judge of the District Court of the district in which such suit is required or permitted to be instituted, setting forth the name and residence of the witness, the subject of the expected controversy, the names of the persons known to be adversely interested therein, and asking that the deposition of the witness or witnesses be taken and perpetuated.

SEC. 788.  Before such deposition can be taken, the persons named in the statement as the expected adverse party, shall be personally served with a copy of the statement, of the order of the Judge made thereon, and of the interrogatories to be propounded to the witnesses, and with a notice that application will be made to the Clerk of the Court, with whom such statement and order required to be filed, for the commission to take such deposition.  When a married woman, a minor or person of unsound mind is an expected adverse party, like service shall be made on the husband as well as the wife, or the guardian of such minor or person of unsound mind, as the case may be.

SEC. 789.  The Judge granting the order, may, in his discretion, prescribe a longer or shorter time than is required by law for the service of a notice to take depositions in suits pending.

SEC. 790.  If the Judge fail to make an order prescribing what notice shall be given, then the notice shall be the same that would be required if the suit were pending in the Court in which the statement and order are required to be filed.

SEC. 791.  When the person to be notified is out of this State, but is within the United States, such notice with a copy of the statement, order, interrogatories and proof of service, may be made and proved in the same way that the service of a notice and copy of the complaint is permitted to be made and proved by Article 193; and when no other time is prescribed by the order of the Judge, the commission may issue after the expiration of sixty days after such service.

SEC. 792.  The statement and order for taking the deposition, when granted, shall be filed with the Clerk of the District Court of the county in which the suit is required or permitted to be instituted.

SEC. 793.  The depositions when taken, shall be returned to the Clerk who issued the commission, and may be opened by order of the Judge, at the request of any person whose interest may be affected by them.
SEC. 794.  In the event of a suit between the persons named in the statement as expected parties, or their successors interest, the depositions may be read by either party, when the witness is dead or has become insane, or under any circumstances under which a deposition taken pending the suit, might be read; and shall be subject to the same objection as if taken pending the suit.

SECTION 6.  Miscellaneous provisions respecting depositions.

SEC. 795.  If a witness cannot write, his name may be written by another person at the end of his deposition, and he shall make his mark near thereto.

SEC. 796.  No person who is a party to the suit, nor the agent or attorney of such person, shall be present when the answers of a witness are taken.

SEC. 797.  A deposition shall not be excluded at the trial or declared invalid, merely because the officer omitted to endorse the names of the parties or the witness, upon the envelope.

SEC. 798.  Every deposition which a party wishes to introduce as evidence, must be filed with the papers of the cause before the commencement of the trial.

SEC. 799.  After the deposition has been filed, it may be opened by the Clerk, at the request of either party, his agent or attorney.  The Clerk shall endorse upon the envelope of each deposition, upon what day and at whose request it was opened, and shall sign his name thereto.  The deposition shall remain on file for the inspection of either party.

SEC. 800.  Exceptions to depositions shall be writing, specifying the grounds of objection, and filed with the papers of the suit, and notice thereof given to the adverse party or his attorney.

SEC. 801.  No objection to the form of a deposition, or to the manner of taking it, or to the answers because the questions may be leading, or for any other cause, except incompetency of the witness or incompetency or irrelevancy of the testimony, shall be taken after the parties have announced themselves ready for the trial of the cause.  And all such as are previously taken shall be decided by the Court, before the party, that sued out the commission, shall be required to announce whether he is ready for trial.

SEC. 802.  If depositions be on file and among the papers of the cause when it may be called and continued, or if they be filed at any time before or during a term of the Court, and reasonable notice thereof be given to the adverse party, before its final adjournment, all the objections thereto, enumerated in Article 801, or contemplated by it, must be taken in time to try the same during the term of the Court, or they shall be deemed to be waived.

SEC. 803.  It shall be the duty of the Court, before the adjournment thereof, to determine all exceptions to depositions, which may be on file in any suit pending therein.

SEC. 804.  If a deposition contain testimony not relevant to the interrogatories or cross-interrogatories, it shall be deemed surplusage, and shall not be read at the trial.

SEC. 805.  Depositions taken in a cause, may be read by either party, at any state of the suit or proceeding, or in any other suit between the same parties.  It shall then be deemed the evidence of the party using it.

SEC. 806.  If any party desire to take the deposition of the adverse party, or of any witness having an adverse interest, he shall have the right to propound leading questions upon the direct examination.

Chapter VIII.  Depositions to be used in other states.

SEC. 807.  A party desiring to take depositions in this State, to be used in judicial proceedings in other States or countries, may produce to any offer in this State authorized to take depositions in the county where the witness resides, or is staying, a commission authorizing the taking of such depositions, whereupon it shall be the duty of such officer to issue a subpoena for the witnesses to attend at a specified time and place for examination; and, in case of their failure to attend, or refusal to testify, the same proceedings shall be had as in like cases for taking depositions to be used in this State.
	
Chapter IX.  General rules for the examination of witnesses.

SEC. 808.  The Court shall exercise a reasonable control over the mode of interrogation, so as to make it rapid, distinct, as little annoying to the witness, and as effective for the extraction of truth, as may be; but, subject to this control, the parties may put such legal and pertinent questions as they may see fit.  The Court, however, may stop the production of further evidence on a particular point, where the evidence upon it is already so full as to preclude reasonable doubt.

SEC. 809.  The examination of a witness by the party producing him, is the direct examination; the examination of the same witness upon the same matter, by the adverse party, is the cross-examination.  The direct examination must be completed before the cross-examination begins, unless the Court otherwise direct.

SEC. 810.  A question that suggests to the witness  the answer which the examining party desires, is a leading question.

SEC. 811.  On the direct examination, leading questions are not allowed, except under special circumstances making it appear that the ends of justice require it.

SEC. 812.  On cross examination, the adverse party may put leading questions; but if he examines the witness on new matters, such examination becomes direct, and subject to all the rules respecting the same.

SEC. 813.  The party producing a witness is not allowed to impeach his credit by evidence of bad character, unless it be a case in which it was indispensable that the party should produce him; but he may contradict him by other evidence, and may show that he has made statements different from his present testimony.

SEC. 814.  A witness may be impeached by the party against whom he is called, by contradictory evidence, or by evidence that his reputation for truth is bad, or that his moral character is such as to render him unworthy of belief; but not by evidence of particular wrongful acts, except that it may be shown by the record of a judgment, that he has been convicted of felony.

SEC. 815.  A witness may also be impeached by evidence that he has made at other times, statements inconsistent with his present testimony.  But before this can be done, his previous statements must be related to him, with the circumstances of the times, places and persons present, and he must be asked whether he made such statements, and if so, he must be allowed to explain them.  If the statements be in writing, they must be shown to the witness before any question is put to him concerning them.

SEC. 816.  Evidence of the good character of a witness is inadmissible until his character has been impeached.

SEC. 817.  A witness once examined, cannot be re-examined as to the same matter, without leave of the Court.  But he may be re-examined as to any new matter upon which he has been examined by the adverse party.  After the examination on both sides is concluded, the witness cannot be recalled without leave of the Court.

SEC. 818.  If either party require it, the Court or officer before whom the examination is had, may exclude from the room any witnesses of both parties, not at the time under examination, so that they may not hear the testimony of the other witnesses.

SEC. 819.  Where an attorney has any cause to believe that a question which he is about to put to a witness will be objected to by the counsel for the adverse party, it shall be his duty first to reduce his question to writing and hand it to such counsel; if objected be made it shall be submitted to the Court, and if the Judge desires to hear argument, he may send the jury out of the Court room charge of a bailiff, until the argument is concluded.

SEC. 820.  The Judge or a juror may be called as a witness by either party; but in such case, it is in the discretion of the Court to suspend the trial, and order it to take place before another Judge or jury; and where a party knows, at the time the jury are sworn, that a juror is to be called by him as a witness, he shall then disclose it, and such person shall be excluded from the jury.

SEC. 821.  Whenever a writing is shown to a witness, it may be inspected by the adverse party; and, if proved by the witness, it must be read to the jury before his testimony is closed; otherwise it cannot be read, unless the witness be recalled.

Chapter X.  Of the proof of instruments offered in evidence.

SEC. 822.  When any part of the pleadings in a cause shall be founded, in whole or in part, upon any obligation, contract, conveyance, or any other instrument in writing, charged to have been executed by the opposite party, or by his authority, and not alleged therein to be lost or destroyed, such obligation, contract, conveyance, or other instrument or note in writing, shall be received as evidence, without the necessity of proving its execution, unless the party by whom or by whose authority such obligation, contract, conveyance, or other instrument in writing, is charged to have been executed, shall, in his pleading, supported by affidavit, deny the execution thereof; and the like rule shall prevail in all suits against endorsers, and securities upon any obligation, contract, or other instrument in writing.

SEC. 823.  When any such contract, obligation, conveyance, or other instrument, shall be charged as aforesaid to have been executed by any testator, or interstate, it shall also by received in evidence in like manner, unless some suspicion is cast upon it, before the trial begins, by the affidavit of the executor or administrator, of such testator or intestate.

SEC. 824.  All written assignments, transfers, or endorsements of the instruments mentioned in the two preceding Articles, shall be received as evidence in like manner, unless the party, against whom they are to be used, shall, in his pleading, supported by affidavit, allege that he believes some one or more of such assignments, transfers, or endorsements are forged.  The affidavit may be made by a party who is not alleged to have made such assignment, transfer or endorsement, at any time before the commencement of the trial.

SEC. 825.  The party holding such obligation, contract, conveyance, or other instrument, shall be compelled to exhibit the same on request of the opposite party or his attorney; and if he fail or refuse to make such exhibition within a reasonable time, he shall be required to prove its execution, assignments, transfers, and endorsements, although the answer denying the same be not supported by affidavit. – This Article controls the second subdivision of Article 208, and the first subdivision of Article 221.

SEC. 826.  If any pleading be founded upon any obligation, contract, or other instrument of writing, which may be filed in a suit in any other Court of this State, a certified copy of the same, under the hand of the Clerk and seal of the Court in which the original may be filed, shall be admitted in like manner as the original could be.  But if the defendant should plead and file an affidavit in support thereof, that such other obligation, contract, or other instrument, was not executed by him or by his authority, the Clerk of the Court having the custody of such original, shall, on being summoned as a witness, attend with the same on the trial of the issue, and the execution of such original shall be proved as in other cases.

SEC. 827.  Copies of the records of all public offices, and Courts of this State, certified under the hand and seal, (if there be one,) of the lawful keeper of such records, shall be admitted in all cases where the records themselves would be admissible, with or without further proof as the originals would be.

SEC. 828.  Translated copies of records in the Land Office, certified under the hand of the translator, with the certificate of the Commissioner of the General Land Office that he is such translator, attested with the seal of said office, shall be prima facie evidence, in all cases where the original records would be evidence.
SEC. 829.  Every instrument of writing, which has been legally recorded in the office of the Clerk of the county Court, or has been duly authenticated for registration, and has been filed among the papers of the cause, and two days notice thereof been given to the adverse party, or his attorney, before the commencement of the trial, shall be admitted as evidence, without the necessity of proving its execution, unless the adverse party or some person for him, file an affidavit, stating that he believes such instrument of writing to be forged.

SEC. 830.  When a party to a suit shall, two days before the trial, file among the papers of a cause, a certified copy of the record of an instrument recorded as set forth in the preceding Article, and shall give two days notice thereof to the opposite party, his agent or attorney, and shall file an affidavit stating that such original has been lost, or that he cannot procure the same, such copy shall be admitted in like manner as the original could be, unless the opposite party or some person for him, file an affidavit before the commencement of the trial, stating that he believes the original was forged.

SEC. 831.  Copies of all conveyances and instruments of writing, between private individuals, where the originals were filed or deposited in the office of any Alcalde or Judge in Texas, before the first Monday in February, 1837, shall be admitted in like manner as the originals might be, and shall have the force and effect of such originals, provided such copies shall be certified to under the hand and seal of the officer with whom such conveyance or instruments of writing may be deposited.

SEC. 832.  Nothing contained in any of the three preceding Articles, shall be so construed as to prevent a party from proving the execution of any of the instruments there in referred to, in any other mode permitted by the laws of evidence.

SEC. 833.  Whenever an affidavit shall be filed under the provisions of any Article in this Chapter, denying the execution of any instrument on file, or produced in evidence, it shall be the duty of the Clerk to retain such instrument, and not permit it to be taken away without an order of the Court, for that purpose.

SEC. 834.  When it becomes necessary to prove the execution of an instrument to which there is one or more subscribing witnesses, none of whom reside in the county where the cause is pending, or if they reside in the county but are incapable of attending or testifying at the trial, the execution of the instrument shall be regarded as proved by proof of the handwriting of the party who made it, and of one of the subscribing witnesses thereto.

SEC. 835.  When any officer to whom the legal custody of any record, instrument, or paper shall belong, shall certify under his hand and official seal, that he has made diligent examination in his office for such record, document or paper, and that it cannot be found, such certificate shall be presumptive evidence of the facts so certified, in all cases, matters and proceedings, in the same manner, and with like effect, as if such officer has personally testified to the same in the Court, or before the officer before whom such cause, matter, or proceeding may be pending.

SEC. 836.  Either party may exhibit to the adverse party, or his attorney of record, any paper material to the suit, and request a written admission of its execution.  If the party so requested, or his attorney, shall fail to make such admission for two days, the party making such request may proceed to procure evidence to prove its execution, and if the execution thereof be proven or admitted at the trial, the party failing previously to make the admission, shall pay reasonable costs for obtaining such evidence, unless it appear to the satisfaction of the Court, that there was good reason for withholding such admission.

SEC. 837.  The Court before which a suit is pending, may, in its discretion, upon motion duly served, order either party to give to the other, within a specified time, an inspection or copy, or permission to take a copy, of any books, papers, or documents, in his possession, or under his control, containing evidence relating to any cause pending in Court.  If compliance with the order be refused, the Court, on motion, may exclude such books, papers or documents from being given in evidence by the party refusing, and in a proper case may also punish such party for contempt.

SEC. 838.  Where an instrument is partly written and partly printed, the written shall control the printed portion, when the two are inconsistent.

SEC. 839.  When a subscribing witness denies or does not recollect the execution of an instrument to which his name appears, the execution may be proved by other evidence.

SEC. 840.  It is competent in every case to give evidence of handwriting, by comparison, made by experts, or by the jury; but proof by comparison only shall not  be sufficient to establish the handwriting of a witness, or party, who denies his signature under oath.

Chapter XI.  Of the proof of the private acts of this state and of the laws of other states.

SEC. 841.  Any private Act of this State may be proved,
1.	By the statute books of the State, containing private Acts.
2.	By a copy of such Act, certified under the hand of the Secretary of State, of by his Clerk, attested by the seal of office of said Secretary.

SEC. 842.  The laws of the several States and territories of the United States, or of any foreign government, may be proved in the following manner:
1.	By the production of printed copies, in volumes, of statutes, codes, or digests, of such States, territories, of foreign governments, purporting or proven to have been published by the authority thereof; or
2.	By proving that such copies of volumes, codes, or digests, have been commonly admitted as evidence of the existing law, in the Courts or judicial tribunals of such States, territories, or governments; or
3.	When books purporting to be printed or published under the authority of such State, territory or foreign country, are deposited in the office of the Secretary of State, certified copies of any laws therein contained, under the hand of the Secretary or of his Clerk, attested by the seal of said office, may, in like manner, be admitted as evidence; or
4.	The public seal of such State, territory, or country, affixed to a copy of a written law, shall also be admissible in evidence.

SEC. 843.  The books of the reports of cases adjudged in the Courts of any other State, territory, or country, may also be admitted as presumptive evidence of their laws, in the Courts of this State.

SEC. 844.  The rate of interest allowed by the laws of any State of the United States, may be proved by the testimony of any witness acquainted with such rate of interest.

Chapter XII.  Miscellaneous provisions on evidence.

SEC. 845.  In all suits by the State against revenue officers, and other persons accountable for public money, a transcript from the books and proceedings of the office of the Comptroller, certified under his hand and seal of office, shall be admitted and read as evidence upon the trial; and all copies of bonds, contracts or other papers relating to or connected with such transcript, when certified under the hand and seal of the Comptroller, to be true copies of the original on file in his office, may be annexed to such transcript, and shall have equal validity, and be entitled to the same degree of credit, which would be due to the original papers if produced and authenticated in Court.  But where such suit is brought on a bond or other instrument in writing, the original, if it be not lost, must be produced at the trial, provided the defendant deny the execution of the instrument in his answer, and such denial be supported by affidavit.

SEC. 846.  When part of an act, declaration, conversation or writing is given in evidence, by one party, the whole act, declaration, conversation or writing, on the same subject, may be enquired into by the other: as when a letter is read, all other letters on the same subject, between the same parties, may be given in evidence.  And when a detailed act, conversation or writing, is given in evidence, any other act, conversation or writing, which is necessary to make it fully understood, or to explain the same, may also be given in evidence.

SEC. 847.  When the terms of an agreement have been intended in a different sense by the different parties to it, that sense is to prevail against either party, in which he supposed the other understood it; and when different constructions of a provision are equally proper, that is to be taken which is most beneficial to the party in whose favor the provision was made.

SEC. 848.  The following testimony shall be prima facie evidence of an account:
1.	That claimant keeps regular accounts of his business, in a book or books provided for that purpose, which are free from interlineations and erasures, and that he usually makes the entries or causes the same to be made at the time of the delivery of the articles or performance of the work; and that the account corresponds with the entries in such book or books; and,
2.	That the party charged had, on some occasion, obtained articles from, or procured work to be done by the claimant, and directed the same to be charged.
3.	The correctness of the account must be supported by the affidavit of the claimant, or good cause must be shown why such affidavit is not produced.

SEC. 849.  The common law is adopted, as to all matters of evidence, not previously provided for in this Title.

Title XV.  General provisions respecting the mode of proceeding in the district courts in civil cases.

Chapter 1.  Process.

SEC. 850.  All process, not specially provided for, shall run in the name of the State of Texas; shall be directed to some officer lawfully authorized to execute the same, or to a person specially appointed under Article 859; shall command what is to be done; and shall be dated and attested by the signature of the Clerk and the seal of the Court.

SEC. 851.  It shall be no objection to any process, notice, bond, affidavit, or order for a provisional remedy, that it was issued, made, or is dated on a holiday.

SEC. 852.  Any process may be issued on a holiday, where an affidavit of the plaintiff or some other person is made, to the effect that, unless it be issued on that day, there is reasonable cause to believe that it cannot be executed.

SEC. 853.  Any process or notice may be executed on a holiday, when the same is issued on a holiday, or when the officer having the process believes, or an affidavit of the plaintiff or some other person is made to the effect that the affiant believes, that the property is about to be concealed, or removed, or that the process cannot be executed after such holiday.

SEC. 854.  The first day in the week, fourth of July, second of March and twenty-fifth of December, are holidays; and ou said days no public officer shall be required to perform any act of official duty, under the provisions of this Code, except in the cases where it is expressly so provided.

SEC. 855.  Attendance at any muster, election, order of survey, as a witness, juror, or party in a suit or judicial proceeding, or on the Legislature as a member thereof, shall not exempt any person from the service of process or his property from seizure.

SEC. 856.  Copies of exhibits filed with a complaint or other pleading, shall not be required to accompany the copy to be served with the citation on the adverse party.

SEC. 857.  Where there is no Sheriff, or the Sheriff is imprisoned, or the Sheriff or his deputy is a party or interested,  or where the Sheriff is incompetent or unable for any cause to execute process directed to him, it shall be executed by the Coroner, who shall state in his return the reason why it was executed by him; and in case of like vacancy or in capacity on the part of both the Sheriff and Coroner, such process shall be executed by any Constable of the county, who shall also state in his return the reason why it was executed by him.

SEC. 858.  Where an affidavit is filed, of the partiality, prejudice, consanguinity or affinity of the Sheriff, all process in the suit shall be directed to the Coroner, and shall be executed and returned by him; and if like affidavit be also filed as to the Coroner, all process therein shall be directed to any Constable of the county, provided a new Sheriff shall not have since been elected and qualified.

SEC. 859.  The Court, for good cause, may appoint a person to execute a particular process or order, who shall have the same power to execute it, which a Sheriff has.  The return must be verified by his affidavit.  He shall receive the same fees that are allowed to Sheriffs for similar services.

SEC. 860.  Where the office of District Judge is vacant, or the Judge is absent from the District, or is disqualified, or is unable on account of sickness or other cause to attend to his duties, the District Judge of an adjoining District may make any order in vacation, which could be made by a properly qualified Judge of said District.

SEC. 861.  In cases of certiorari to the Court of a Justice of the Peace, or County Court, and in all other cases except the commencement of a suit and the making of new parties, five days service of the citation before the day on which the party is cited to appear, shall be sufficient, unless otherwise directed by the Court.

Chapter II. Duties of clerks.

SEC. 862.  The Clerk shall immediately endorse upon every paper filed, the day of filing it; and upon every process, bond, or other paper required to be returned, the day of its return to his office, and sign his name thereto; also, the number of the suit, if it be not already indorsed.

SEC. 863.  He shall prepare in a proper manner every bond to be taken by or given before him or his Court.

Chapter III.  Duties of sheriffs.

SEC. 864.  The Sheriff, or other officer receiving any process, shall indorse thereon the day on which he received it, and sign the same officially, and he shall, within a reasonable time, execute and return the same according to law, stating the time and manner of the execution.  In cases where the process prescribes the particular manner of service and return, the same shall be executed and returned accordingly.  All returns must be signed officially.

SEC. 865.  The Sheriff or other officer receiving any writ of attachment, sequestration, or execution, shall endorse thereon the day on which he received it; and where two or more of such writs, against the same person, are received by him on the same day, he shall endorse them in the order in which they were received.

SEC. 866.  A Sheriff having an order of attachment, or sequestration, or execution, may enter any building or inclosure containing the property, to take it; and, if necessary, for this purpose, may break the building or inclosure, in the day time, having first publicly demanded the property.

SEC. 867.  A Sheriff having an order of arrest may enter any house or inclosure in which the party to be arrested may be, to arrest him; and, if necessary, for this purpose, may, in the day time, break the house or inclosure, after having informed any person therein of his object, or, where no person appears to whom such information can be given, after having publicly demanded the person to be arrested; and, in either case, after having given sufficient time for the house or inclosure to be opened.

SEC. 868.  It shall not be a sufficient return of any process, that the officer was kept off by force from executing it.

Chapter IV.  Miscellaneous provisions.

SEC. 869.  Any duty enjoined by this Code upon a ministerial officer, and any act permitted to be done by him, may be performed by his lawful deputy.

SEC. 870.  Any authority conferred upon three or more persons may be exercised by a majority of them; and a majority of three or more persons may do any act directed to be performed by them.

SEC. 871.  Where it is required by law that a bond shall be taken, the bond shall not be considered defective, if it embrace the substance required; but shall be void as to any excess; nor can the obligee, in any bond, object that it is less onerous than the law required.  It shall not be necessary for a bond to have a seal or scrawl instead thereof.

SEC. 872.  When any bond, provided for by law, is adjudged to be defective, a new and sufficient one may be executed in such reasonable time as the Court may fix, with the same effect as if originally executed.

SEC. 873.  The officer, whose duty it is to take security in any case, except for costs, shall require the person offered as surety to make affidavit of his qualification, which affidavit shall be made before such officer, and shall be indorsed on the bond and signed by the affiant.  The taking of such an affidavit shall not exempt the officer from any liability to which he might otherwise be subject for taking insufficient security.

SEC. 874.  The surety in every bond provided for by law must be resident of this State, and worth double the sum to be secured, beyond the amount of his debts, and have property liable to execution against him, in this State, equal to the sum to be secured.  Where there are two or more sureties in the same bond, they must, in the aggregate, have the qualification prescribed in this Article.

SEC. 875.  The affidavit shall be substantially as follows: “I, A. B., do solemnly swear that I reside in ___________ county in this State; that I am worth, beyond the amount of my debts, the sum of ______________ dollars, and that I have property in this State, liable to execution against me, of the value of _____________ dollars.  So help me God.” It shall be signed by the surety.

SEC. 876.  It shall be the duty of the Clerk or Sheriff, or any other officer, to refuse any surety in a bond to be taken by him, who is in his opinion insufficient, notwithstanding such surety be willing to take the oath prescribed by the preceding Article.

SEC. 877.  Successive suits, upon the same contract or transaction, may be maintained, whenever, after the former suit, a new cause of action has arisen.

SEC. 878.  When several suits may be pending in the same Court, by the same plaintiff or plaintiffs, against the same defendant or defendants, for causes of action which may be joined, the Court may, if the ends of justice will be promoted thereby, order such suits to be consolidated.

SEC. 879.  Any party, to secure whom bond has been given, may, upon reasonable notice to the party giving the same, or his attorney, move the Court for additional security; and if it appear that a surety has removed from the State, or that the security is insufficient, the Court shall require additional security.

SEC. 880.  Whenever any mode of proceeding is provided by this Code, on behalf of the plaintiff, the same shall apply to the defendant, as to any counterclaim properly pleaded.

SEC. 881.  A party shall not be prejudiced by any mistake or misprision of an officer of the Court, but the same may, on motion, after notice to the adverse party, or his attorney, be corrected so as to correspond with the fact.

SEC. 882.  If any person, party, or witness, disobey an order of the Court or Judge july served, such person, party or witness may be imprisoned in the county jail until he complies with such order, or gives such security as the Court or Judge may direct, to comply therewith by a given time.  In case of inability to perform the act required, or to give security for its performance, or to endure the imprisonment, such person shall be discharged.

SEC. 883.  If a term of the Court be not held at the time prescribed by law, or if the business be not disposed of before the adjournment thereof, all such business, of whatsoever nature, shall stand continued until the next succeeding term.

SEC. 884.  It shall not be necessary to entitle an affidavit in the suit; but an affidavit made without a title or with a defective title, shall be as valid and effectual for every purpose, as if it were duly entitled, if it intelligibly refer to the suit or proceeding in which it is made.

SEC. 885.  Where it is not otherwise expressly provided, time shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last.  If the last day be a holiday, it shall be excluded.

SEC. 886.  An attorney of record is one whose name appears to any pleading, motion or proceeding in the case, or who appears by the minutes of the Court to be an attorney in the suit.

Repealing Clause.

SEC. 887.  The following Acts and parts of Acts are hereby repealed:
	The second section of the Act of May 3, 1838, securing the right of appeal.
	Act of January 23, 1839, supplementary to the judiciary laws of the Republic.
	Act of January 26, 1839, to require the plea of non est factum to be filed under the oath in certain cases.
	An Act of February 5, 1840, to onable part owners of land to obtain partition thereof, and for other purposes.
	Act of January 14, 1841, supplementary to an Act establishing the jurisdiction and powers of the District Courts.
	Act of Jan. 16, 1843, to prescribe the manner in which suits shall be tried, in which the District Judges may be interested.
	Act of March 31, 1846, to authorize parties to suits to appear therein in person.
	Act of May 13, 1846, to regulate proceedings in the District Courts.
	Act of March 16, 1848, concerning proceedings in the District Court.
	Act of February 10th, 1852, concerning writs of certiorari of Justice’s Courts.
	Act of December 24, 1851, to amend the 151st section of an Act to regulate proceedings in the District Courts, approved May 13th, 1846.
	Act of December 24th, 1851, to enable part owners of slaves and other personal property to obtain partition therof.
	Act of February 6, 1854, to amen the ninth section of an Act to regulate proceedings in the District Courts, passed on the 13th day of May, 1846.
	Act of February 13, 1854, to provide for change of venue of cases, which the District Judges may be disqualified from trying.
	Act of April 25, 1846, to authorize the settlement of disputes by conciliation or arbitration.
	Act of March 11, 1848, regulating attachments.
	Act of January 16, 1850, to amend an Act regulating attachments, approved March 11, 1848.
	Section one of Act of February 5, 1840, to regulate the proceedings in civil suits.
	Act of January 19, 1850, supplementary to an Act defining the office and duties of constables, approved May 12, A.D. 1846
	Sections four and five of Act of May 11, 1846, to incorporate the several counties of this State which now exist, or which may be hereafter established.
	Act of February 5, 1840, allowing discounts and setoffs.
	Sections four, six, seven, and eleven of Act of January 6, 1841, concerning divorce and alimony.
	Sections two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, thirteen, of Act of March 20, 1848, to provide for vesting in the State escheated property.
	Act of January 26, 1839, to exempt certain property therein named from execution.
	Act of January 27, 1842, to reduce into one and amend the several Acts concerning executions, except seventeenth eighteenth, nineteenth and twenty-first sections thereof.
	Sections nine and ten of Act of January 20, 1840, to adopt the common law of England, to repeal certain Mexican lawn, and to regulate the marital rights of parties.
	Act of May 15, 1838, to provide for the foreclosing of mortgages on real and personal estates.
	Act of February 5, 1840, to amend an act to provide for the foreclosing of mortgages on real and personal estate, approved May 15, 1838.
	Act of March 18, 1848, to establish the method of trying the right of property levied on under writs of execution sequestration and attachment, where the same is claimed by a person not a party to such writs.
	Act of March 15, 1848, regulating sequestrations.
	Act of February 5, 1840, to provide the mode of trying titles to land.
SEC. 888.  But this repeal shall not affect any right already existing, or any proceeding already taken; nor shall it restore any right that has been lost.

Part III. Of the mode of proceeding in the supreme court in civil cases.

Title I. Mode of taking an appeal to the supreme court.

SEC. 889.  The only mode of reviewing in the Supreme Court, a judgment or order of the District Court, is by appeal.

SEC. 890.  Appeals from the District Courts to the Supreme Court, are either simple or suspensive.

SEC. 891.  A simple appeal is taken in the manner prescribed in Article 897, and does not suspend the execution of the judgment.

SEC. 892.  A suspensive appeal is taken in the manner prescribed in Articles 903, 904, 905 and 906, and suspends the execution of the judgment.

SEC. 893.  Any party to an issue may appeal from a final judgment rendered against him, or in a manner prejudicial to his interest; and on such appeal, may claim a revision of any intermediate order involving the merits and necessarily affecting the judgment; or involving the validity of a provisional incident to the suit.

SEC. 894.  An appeal may be taken form an interlocutory judgment, before final judgment is rendered, in the cases provided for in the third subdivision of Article 13.

SEC. 895.  The party appealing shall be known as the appellant, and the adverse party as the appellee.

SEC. 896.  The Court from which the appeal is taken is called the Court below.

SEC. 897.  A simple appeal is taken by giving notice thereof in writing to the adverse party or his attorney of record, and causing a copy of such notice to be filed in the office of the Clerk of the Court below, together with the proof of the service thereof, and a bond signed by one or more sureties to be approved by the Clerk, in the sum of two hundred and fifty dollars, to the effect that the appellant will pay all costs that may be adjudged against him on the appeal.  Where notice of appeal has been given as prescribed in Article 481, if the bond herein required be filed within twenty days after the day fixed by law for the adjournment of the term at which the judgment was rendered, the notice required by the first part of this Article shall not be necessary.

SEC. 898.  Instead of the bond provided in the preceding Article, the appellant may deposit with the Clerk, with whom the judgment was entered, two hundred and fifty dollars, as security for the costs of the appeal.  A certificate by the Clerk, of the fact of such deposit, shall take the place of the bond in all cases where the latter or a copy thereof, is mentioned.

SEC. 899.  Where the appellant makes affidavit that he is unable to give the bond or deposit the amount, as provided in the two preceding Articles, he may take a simple appeal without such bond or deposit.  The affidavit shall take the place of the bond, in all cases where the latter or a copy thereof is mentioned.

SEC. 900.  The notice of appeal, to be served on the party or his attorney of record, after the adjournment of the Court, shall be sufficient if it contain, 
1.	The style of the suit and the name of the Court wherein the judgment was rendered.
2.	The term of the Court at which it was rendered.
3.	If several judgments were rendered at the same term, or on the same day, in suits between the same parties, the notice shall contain such additional description, as will identify the one appealed from.
4.	It shall notify the party or his attorney of record, that an appeal will be taken, and by whom.
5.	It shall be signed by the party or his attorney.

SEC. 901.  The  notice may be served and returned by the same persons and in the same manner as provided in Articles 486 and 487.

SEC. 902.  The attorney of record at the trial, continues to be the attorney of record for the purpose of receiving notice of appeal, until another attorney residing in the county and not absent therefrom at the time, is appointed in his stead, and notice thereof given to the adverse party of his attorney.

SEC. 903.  A suspensive appeal is taken in the same manner as a simple appeal, except that instead of a bond for costs only, the appellant must cause to be filed in the office of the Clerk of the Court below, a bond signed by one or more sureties to be approved by the Clerk, in double the amount of the debt or damages, or the value of the personal property adjudged, to the effect that the appellant will perform any judgment which the Supreme Court may render against him on the appeal.

SEC. 904.  If the judgment appealed from directs the execution of a conveyance, assignment or other instrument, the appeal is not suspensive, unless the instrument be executed and deposited with the Clerk of the Court below, to abide the judgment of the Supreme Court.

SEC. 905.  If the judgment appealed from be for the sale or recovery of real property, the notice and bond prescribed in Article 897 shall be sufficient to constitute a suspensive appeal, unless an order be entered before the adjournment of the term at which the judgment is rendered, fixing the amount of the bond to be given in such case, in order to obtain a suspensive appeal.  Where such order is entered, the bond must be filed, signed by one or more sureties to be approved by the Clerk, in the amount fixed by the order to the effect that during the possession of such property by the appellant, he will not commit, or suffer to be committed, any waste thereon, and that if the judgment be affirmed, he will pay the value of the use and occupation of the property, from the time of the appeal until the delivery of possession thereof, pursuant to the judgment.

SEC. 906.  An appeal under the third subdivision of Article 13, is taken by giving notice thereof as provided in Article 481 and filing the bond for costs, as provided in Article 897; and, when so taken, suspends the interlocutory judgment.  If not so taken, the party may claim a revision of such interlocutory judgment, after final judgment rendered, as contemplated in Article 893.

SEC. 907.  When notice of an appeal from an interlcutory judgment, under the third subdivision of Article 13, is entered of record, it may also be entered, if both parties agree, that the appeal shall await the final judgment in the suit; in which case, the notice shall have the effect to suspend the interlocutory judgment; and if the party taking such appeal, should take an appeal after final judgment, the latter appeal shall include the former, provided it be perfetced within twenty days after the day fixed by law for the adjournment of the term at which such final judgment is rendered; or, such party may, within said twenty days, perfect his appeal from such interlocutory judgment alone.

SEC. 908.  An appeal from a final judgment may be taken within two years after the same was rendered, but not after; provided that an appeal may be taken by infants persons or unsound mind, and persons imprisoned on execution under the sentence of a Court, for a term less than for life within one year after the removal of such disability; and in case of the death of such person within the time allowed, the appeal may be taken by his representative.

SEC. 909.  Executors, administrators and guardians may take suspensive appeals without bond, in all cases in which they are allowed by law to sue without giving security for costs.

SEC. 910.  The Court below may limit the security for a suspensive appeal, to an amount less then that mentioned in Article 903, but large enough to secure the rights of the appellee.

SEC. 911.  An appeal is said to be perfected, when proof of notice on the adverse party or his attorney of record, together with the bond required, and the instrument (where one is necessary under Article 904) have been duly filed in the office of the Clerk of the Court in which judgment was rendered.

SEC. 912.  When a suspensive appeal is perfected, it stays all further proceedings in the Court below, upon the judgment appealed from, or upon the matter embraced therein; but the Court below may proceed upon any other matter included in the suit, and not affected by the judgment appealed from.

SEC. 913.  Where execution shall have been issued before the perfecting of a suspensive appeal, it shall be the duty of the Clerk to deliver a written notice thereof to the Sheriff or other officer; or to mail it to such Sheriff or other officer, if the execution shall have been issued to another county; or, if the party request it, the notice may be delivered to him, to be served on the Sheriff or other officer, by any disinterested person.

SEC. 914.  When such notice is served on him, the Sheriff shall immediately return the execution “stayed by appeal.”

SEC. 915.  When a party shall, in good faith, give notice appeal, and shall omit through mistake, to do any other act necessary to perfect the appeal, the Supreme Court may permit an amendment on such terms as may be just.

Title II.  Of the parties to appeals.

SEC. 916.  The proper parties to appeals are determined by the rules which are prescribed by this Code, for original suits, in like cases.

SEC. 917.  If a party die, or, being an executor, administrator, guardian or trustee, cease to be such, the appeal may be prosecuted by the representative or successor of such party, in his representative or official capacity.

SEC. 918.  If a party who would appellee die, or being an executor, administrator, guardian or trustee, cease to be such, the appeal may nevertheless be perfected by service of the notice on the attorney of record.

SEC. 919.  Where a party to an appeal is dead, or, being an executor, administrator, guardian or trustee, has ceased to be such, a suggestion of the fact, and of the name of his representative or successor, may be filed in vacation, or entered on the minutes during the term, and thereupon a citation shall be issued to the representative or successor to appear at the next term of the Court at that place; if, in term time, it shall require him to appear at that or the next term as the Court may direct.

SEC. 920.  Where a party dies, or, being executor, administrator, guardian or trustee, ceases to be such after an appeal has been submitted, the decision may be made and judgment rendered in the names of the parties to the apappeal at the time of the submission.

Title III.  Of the transcript on appeal.

SEC. 921.  Upon the appeal from a final judgment being perfected, the Clerk shall, on application of either party or his attorney, deliver to him a certified copy of the judgment roll made up as prescribed in Article 439, and of the notice of appeal, and appeal bond.

SEC. 922.  Upon the appeal from an interlocutory judgment, under the third subdivision of Article 13, being perfected, the Clerk shall, on application of either party or his attorney, deliver to him a certified copy of the pleadings, affidavits and other papers, upon which such interlocutory judgment was rendered, and of the notice of appeal and appeal bond.

SEC. 923.  The certified copies mentioned in the two preceding Articles shall be known as the transcript on appeal.

SEC. 924.  Where thirty days will elapse from the time of perfecting the appeal, until the first day of the time designated in any term of the Supreme Court then in session, or next succeeding the perfecting of the appeal, for the trial of appeals from the district in which such appeal is taken, it shall be the duty of the appellant to file the transcript in the office of the Clerk of said Court, before said day.

SEC. 925.  Where thirty days will not elapse as prescribed in the preceding Article, it shall be the duty of the appellant to file the transcript before the first day of the time designated in the next succeeding term thereafter, for the trial of appeals from the district in which such appeal is taken.

SEC. 926.  When appellant has failed to file the transcript on appeal within the time required, the appellee may file it, with the same effect as if filed by the appellant.

SEC. 927.  If the appellant fail to file the transcript on appeal as directed in Articles 924 and 925, the appellee may, at the same term of the Court, file a certified copy of the appeal bond and of the notice of appeal, whereupon the judgment shall be affirmed without reference to the merits, unless good cause be shown why such transcript was not filed.

SEC. 928.  If, in the case mentioned in the preceding Article, it by a simple appeal, judgment shall be rendered against the appellant and his sureties, for the costs of the appeal.

SEC. 929.  If, in the case mentioned in Article 927, it be a suspensive appeal, and the judgment of the Court below or any part thereof, be for the recovery of money, or personal property or the value thereof, such judgment shall be affirmed against the appellant and his sureties, including interest since accrued, and the costs of the appeal.
										G1

SEC. 930.  Where a judgment shall have been affirmed without reference to the merits, such judgment may be set aside and the appellant permitted to file the transcript, during the term at which such judgment was entered, or at any time before the first day of the time designated in the next term for the trial of appeals from the district in which such appeal was taken; provided said appellant show good cause why the transcript was not filed in proper time, and that he has given the appellee his attorney of record in the Court below, reasonable notice of his intention to apply for permission to file said transcript.

SEC. 931.  Where either party or his attorney shall make affidavit that the transcript on  appeal is imperfect, stating the particular in which it is imperfect, the Court may order the Clerk to issue a certiorari, commanding the Clerk of the Court below to transmit to the Supreme Court a true copy of the omitted or imperfect part of the transcript, which part shall be described in the writ.

SEC. 932.  When it shall appear to the Court below, that a view of an original paper in the suit may be important to a correct decision of the appeal, an order may be made that the same be sent to the Supreme Court with the transcript on appeal, as a part thereof.

SEC. 933.  If the appellant desire to obtain a revision of the judgment, on the ground that the verdict was contrary to the evidence, the transcript on appeal must contain a statement of all the facts given in evidence on the trial. – But such statement shall not be necessary in any other case.

SEC. 934.  Where the appellant desires to obtain a revision of a refusal of the Court below, to admit evidence offered by him, it shall be sufficient if his bill of exceptions show what the evidence was, without stating the objections made thereto, or other matter.

SEC. 935.  Where a party desires to obtain a revision of the ruling of the Court below, in the admission of evidence offered by the adverse party, the bill of exceptions must show what the evidence was which was improperly admitted, and the particular objections made thereto at the trial.

SEC. 936.  Where a party desires to obtain a revision of a ruling of the Court below, in refusing to give instructions asked, his bill of exceptions must state enough of the evidence to show that they were applicable to the case, and no more.

SEC. 937.  Where a party desires to obtain a revision of a ruling of the Court below, in giving instructions asked by the adverse party, or of its own motion, the presumption will be that they were applicable to the case, and it shall not be necessary to state facts to show such applicability.

SEC. 938.  Where the transcript contains a statement of all the facts given in evidence on the trial, it shall not be necessary to repeat any of the evidence in bills of exceptions; and where testimony is objected to and admitted, if the objection and the grounds thereof, be stated in connection with such testimony, in the body of the statement of all the facts, it shall be deemed to be a sufficient bill of exceptions, as to each statement so made.

Title IV.  Of the trial of appeals.

SEC. 939.  The Clerk of the Supreme Court shall file and carefully preserve the transcripts on appeal, and all the papers relative thereto; and shall docket all appeals, putting those from each Judicial District together upon the docket, in the order in which he shall receive them.

SEC. 940.  The appeals shall be tried by Districts.  A certain day of the term shall be fixed by a standing order of the Court, for taking up each District, which shall not be changed so as to affect the taking up of causes at the term at which the change is made.  And any change shall be immediately published for a period of three months in a newspaper published at the place where that term of the Court is held.

SEC. 941.  All appeals shall be tried at the term at which they are docketed, unless satisfactory cause be shown for a continuance.

SEC. 942.  All appeals shall be decided at the same term at which they are submitted, if there be sufficient time; if there be not sufficient time to decide an appeal which has been submitted, the decision shall be made at the next term thereafter.

SEC. 943.  The appellee may, at any time before trial, by an entry upon the records of the Supreme Court in open Court, claim a cross appeal.

SEC. 944.  The trial in the Supreme Court shall be upon an assignment of errors, distinctly specifying the particulars in which it is supposed the action of the Court below was erroneous.

SEC. 945.  The assignment of errors must be filed by the appellant with the Clerk of the Supreme Court on or before the day designated for the trial of causes from the District in which the appeal is taken; but the Court may, for cause shown, permit the assignments to be filed at any time before the case is called for trial.

SEC. 946.  An amendment of the assignment of errors may be permitted by the Supreme Court, on such terms as may be just.

SEC. 947.  Where briefs are filed on behalf of the appellant, they shall be open to the inspection of the counsel of the adverse party, and shall be regarded as an assignment of errors.

SEC. 948.  Where the error assigned is a mistake which could be corrected on motion in the Court below, the mistake may be corrected, but the appellee shall recover the costs of the appeal, and ten per cent damages allowed by Article 951 if the appeal was suspensive.

SEC. 949.  A party, or his attorney of record in the Court below, may file a brief for each of the Judges, and the same shall be deemed to be an appearance, and shall be considered, although such attorney may not have license to practice in the Supreme Court.

Title V.  Miscellaneous provisions.

SEC. 950.  The Supreme Court may make rules for the convenient dispatch of business, the preservation of order, the argument of cases or motions, the manner and time of presenting motions or petitions for re-bearing, the time of issuing its mandates and decisions, and mode of enforcing its mandates and orders, and may change the same.

SEC. 951.  Upon the affirmance of a judgment for the payment of money, the collection of which has been suspended, as provided in Article 903, ten per centum damages on the amount suspended, shall be awarded against the appellant and his sureties, unless the Court should be of opinion that there was reasonable cause for taking the appeal.

SEC. 952.  Upon the affirmance of the judgment of the Court below, the appellee may file in the Clerk’s office such Court, the mandate of affirmance, upon which the Clerk shall endorse the time of its being filed; and thereupon such writs of execution may be issued on the judgment, as could be issued after the mandate had been entered in the Court.

SEC. 953.  Written opinions shall be delivered in all cases decided by the Court; and shall be recorded by the Clerk, in a book kept by him for that purpose.

SEC. 954.  The Clerk shall record all the proceedings of the Court, and certify its judgments to the Court below for observance.  Such certificate is called a mandate.

SEC. 955.  All writs and process issuing from the Supreme Court shall run in the name of the State of Texas, shall be attested by the Clerk and the seal of the Court, and may be directed to the Sheriff, or other proper officer of any county in the State, and shall be by such officer executed according to the commands thereof, and returned immediately to the office of the Clerk at the place where they were issued.  Where it is not otherwise expressly ordered, said process may be sent and returned by mail.

SEC. 956.  When any process is returned not executed in whole or in part, the Clerk shall issue other like process, to the same or any other county.

SEC. 957.  The Clerk of the Supreme Court shall not be required to issue the mandate or certify the proceedings thereof, until all the costs accruing on the appeal shall have been paid.

SEC. 958.  The Clerk of the Supreme Court may issue execution for the costs incurred on appeal, against the party or parties and his, her or their sureties, adjudged to pay the same, directed to the Sheriff of any county in the State; and it shall be the duty of every Sheriff, on the receipt of any such execution, to execute and return the same, under the rules, regulations and liabilities provided in cases of executions from the District Court.

SEC. 959.  In the publication of the reported decisions, a short abstract of the facts of the case involved in the decision, shall be made by the reporter, followed by the legal propositions made by counsel in the argument on both sides, with the authorities relied on for their support.

SEC. 960.  The following Acts and parts of Acts are repealed: Joint resolution of April 25, 1846, authorizing plaintiffs or defendants, or their agents, to file in the Supreme Court, briefs of their cases, which shall be taken as an appearance.
	Section three, fourteen, fifteen, twenty, twenty-one, twenty-three, twenty-four and twenty five of the Acts of May 12, 1846, to organize the Supreme Court of the State of Texas.
	The Act of March 13, 1848, to amend sections ten, eleven, thirteen and twenty-two of an Act to organize the Supreme Court of the State of Texas, approved 12th May, 1846.
	The Act of February 11, 1850, concerning the preceed, ings in the Supreme Court.
	The Act of January 31, 1852, supplementary to an Act to amend the second and seventh sections of an Act entitled an Act to organize the Supreme Court of the State of Texas, approved May 12, 1846.
	But this repeal shall not affect any right already existing, nor any proceeding already taken.

	R1

Part IV. Of the Mode of Proceeding in the Courts of Justices of the Peace.

Title 1.  Of the jurisdictions of the courts or justices of the peace.
SEC. 961.  The jurisdiction of the Courts of Justices of the Peace is defined in the fourth Title of the first Part of this Code, commencing at Article 21.

Title II.  Of the time of commencing suits in the courts of justices of the peace.

SEC. 962.  The time of commencing suits in the Courts of Justices of the Peace, is the same that is prescribed by the Title of the Second Part of this Code, for the commencement of like suits in the District Court.  Said Title commences at Article 000.

Title III. Of the parties to suits in the courts of Justices of the peace.

SEC. 963.  The proper parties to suits in the Courts of Justices of the Peace, are determined by the rules prescribed by the first Title of the Second Part of this Code, for suits in the District Courts, commencing at Article 34.

Title IV.  Of the place of commencing suits in the courts of justices of the peace.

SEC. 964.  Every suit in the Court of a Justice of the Peace, shall be commenced in the precinct in which defendant, or one or more of several defendants reside, except that – 
1.	Suits under subdivision four of Article 21, for the possession of real property, must be commenced in the precinct where the property or part thereof is situated.
2.	A defendant may be sued before a Justice of the Peace in a county where he does not reside, if the cause of action or part thereof accrued in such county, and the defendant is found therein.  In such case the suit shall be commenced in the precinct where the cause of action or part thereof accrued.
3.	A suit for personal property, or to enforce a lien thereon, may be commenced in any precinct where the property may be at the time of commencing the suit, or where the defendant resides.
4.	A suit against an executor, administrator or guardian, to establish a demand for money against the estate which he represents, may be commenced before any Justice of the Peace at the county seat of the county where the estate is administered, or in the precinct where he resides.
5.	A suit against a private corporation, created by or under the laws of this State, may be commenced in any precinct where it has a place of business, or in which its chief officer resides.
6.	A suit against a private corporation, created by or under the laws of any other State or country, must be commenced in a precinct in which there is property of such corporation, or in which there is an agency thereof, or in which the cause of action or part thereof arose.
7.	A suit against the owners of a steamboat or other vessel, without naming them, under Article 73, may be commenced in any precinct where the boat or vessel may be found.
8.	If there be no Justice of the Peace qualified to try the suit, in the precinct where the defendant resides, or in which he might be sued under any of the preceding subdivisions of this Article, the suit may be commenced in an adjoining precinct; and, if there be no Justice of the Peace in any adjoining precinct, qualified to try the suit, it may be commenced in any precinct in the county.
9.	A suit against a railroad or canal company or an owner of a line of mail stages or other coaches, for an injury to person or property upon the road, canal, or line of stages or coaches of the defendant, or upon a liability as a carrier, or for illegally transporting a slave, may be brought in any precinct through which such road, canal, or line of stages or coaches may pass; or, in any precinct where the route of such railroad, canal, stages or coaches may begin or terminate.
10.	A person who has no fixed residence may be sued in any precinct in the county.
11.	Residents of incorporated cities and towns may be sued before any Justice of the Peace within the limits of the corporation.
	The residence of a single person is where he has continued to board for thirty days past.

Title V.  Of the joinder of suits in the courts of justices of the peace.

SEC. 965.  The plaintiff may unite in the same suit several causes of action, where they arise out of, 
1.	The same transaction.
2.	Contract, express or implied
3.	Injuries to the person.
4.	Injuries to personal property.
5.	Injuries to real property.
	But the causes of action so united, must all belong to one of these classes, and each must affect all the parties to the suit, and not require different places for their commencement.

Title VI.  Of the commencement of suits in the courts of justices of the peace.

SEC. 966.  A suit is commenced in the Court of a Justice of the Peace, without complaint or other pleading, as follows:
1.	If it be on an account, a copy of the account shall be handed to the Justice.
2.	If it be on an written instrument, the instrument shall be handed to the Justice, or an affidavit shall be made that it is lost; or cannot then be produced, and the reason there for shall be stated.
3.	If the suit be not on an account or written instrument, a verbal or written statement of the facts shall be made to the Justice.

SEC. 967.  Any account, instrument or written statement, which may be handed to the Justice as provided by the preceding Article, shall be indorsed as filed, with the date thereof, by the Justice, signing his name thereto officially; and shall be subject to inspection by the other party, at any time.

SEC. 968.  The Justice shall immediately enter in his docket the title of the suit, with a brief statement of the nature of the plaintiff’s demand, and issue a citation for the defendant or defendants.

SEC. 969.  Only one citation shall be issued, although there be several defendants.

SEC. 970.  The citation shall be sufficient if it contain the following requisites:
1.	Its style shall be “The State of Texas.
2.	It shall be directed to the Sheriff or any Constable of the county.
3.	It shall command the officer to summon the defendant or defendants to appear at a certain day, before two o’clock in the afternoon, at the office of the Justice, to answer the suit of [naming the plaintiff or plaintiffs] against him for [here insert a brief statement of the nature of the plaintiff’s demand, corresponding with the entry on the docket,] by delivering to him in person a copy of the writ.
4.	It shall command the officer to make immediate return thereof.
5.	It shall be dated and attested by the Justice of the Peace.

SEC. 971.  Citations issued by Justices of the Peace, in incorporated cities, may cite the party to appear at any day to be named therein, not less than five days after the service thereof; but citations issued by other Justices, shall cite the defendant to appear at the next regular term of the Court of such Justice.

SEC. 972.  Where the citation is required to be served on any person other than the defendant, as in the case of a corporation, or in any manner other than on the defendant, as in the case of a suit against the owners of a steamboat or other vessel, without naming them, it shall state the name of the person on whom, or the manner in which it is to be served.

SEC. 973.  The citation shall be served as follows:
1.	If the suit be against a private corporation, the copy of the citation shall be delivered to the chief officer, a director or managing agent thereof.
2.	If the suit be against a county, city or town, the copy of the citation shall be delivered to the Chief Justice of such county, or Mayor of such city or town.
3.	If the suit be against an infant under fourteen years of age, or a person judicially declared to be of unsound mind, the copy of the citation shall be delivered to the general guardian (or, if there be no general guardian, to the special guardian,) of such infant or person of unsound mind.  If the infant be fourteen years of age, or the person of unsound mind be not judicially declared to be so, like copies shall be delivered to them in person.
4.	If the suit be against the owners of a steamboat or other vessel, without naming them, under Article 73, a copy of the citation shall be posted in a conspicuous place upon such steamboat or vessel.
5.	In all other cases, the citation shall be served by delivering a copy thereof to the defendant in person.

SEC. 974.  Service may be made by publication in the cases and manner provided in Articles 175, 176 and 179.

SEC. 975.  A voluntary appearance of a defendant is equivalent to personal service of the citation, and a waiver of all defects therein.

SEC. 976.  Where the citation has been improperly served or is not returned, or is returned without being served, the Justice shall issue other citation.

SEC. 977.  The citation shall be served five days before the day named for the defendant’s appearance.

Title VII. Of the pleadings in courts of justices of the peace.
SEC. 978.  The pleadings in the Courts of Justices of the Peace shall be oral.

SEC. 979.  The defendant may plead any counterclaim mentioned in Article 209.

SEC. 980.  The manner of pleading a counterclaim shall be as follows:
1.	If it be an account, a copy of the account shall be handed to the Justice.
2.	If it be a written instrument, the instrument shall be handed to the Justice, or an affidavit shall be made that it is lost, or cannot then be produced, and the reason therefor shall be stated.
3.	If it be not an account or written instrument, a verbal or written statement of the facts shall be made to the Justice.

SEC. 981.  Any account, instrument or written statement which may be handed to the Justice, as provided in the preceding Article, shall be endorsed as filed, with the date thereof, by the Justice, signing his name thereto officially; and shall be subject to inspection by the other party at any time.

SEC. 982.  When a counterclaim of the defendant shall exceed the claim of the plaintiff by one hundred dollars or less, exclusive of interest, the defendant shall have judgment for such excess; but where such excess shall amount to more than one hundred dollars exclusive of interest, the judgment shall be, that the plaintiff take nothing by his suit, and that an amount of the defendant’s counterclaim, equal to the claim established by the plaintiff, be extinguished.

SEC. 983.  Where either desires to plead any of the following matters, he must do so by stating the facts under oath: 
1.	That the suit is not commenced in the proper precinct.
2.	That the plaintiff hath not legal capacity to sue.
3.	That the plaintiff is not entitled to recover in the capacity in which he sues.
4.	That there is another suit pending in this State between the same parties for the same cause of action, or counterclaim.
5.	That there is a defect of parties, plaintiff or defendant.
6.	That a written instrument purporting to be signed by him, or by his authority, was not executed by him or by his authority.
7.	That an indorsement or assignment, of a written instrument was not made by the party by whom it purports to have been made, or by his authority.
8.	A denial of partnership, whether the same be on the part of the plaintiff to defendant.

Title VIII. Of provisional remedies in the courts of justices of the peace.

SEC. 984.  Justices of the Peace have the same power in cases within their jurisdiction, as the Clerk of the District Court, to issue writs of attachment and sequestration.

SEC. 985.  The proceedings in attachments and sequestrations, in the Courts of Justices of the Peace, shall be the same that are provided by Chapters one and two of Title six, of the Second Part, of this Code, for like cases in the District Courts, commencing at Articles 258 and 304.

SEC. 986.  Judgment shall not be rendered in any case of attachment or sequestration, unless the defendant shall have been cited either personally or by publication.

Title IX. Trial and judgment in courts of justices of the peace.

SEC. 987.  The provisions of the seventh Title of the Second Part of this Code, commencing at Article 358, shall apply to the trial and judgments in the Courts of Justices of the Peace, except as herein provided.

SEC. 988.  The failure of the defendant to appear at or before two o’clock in the afternoon of the return day of the citation, or at or before the same hour of any day to which the cause may have been continued, is equivalent to a failure to answer in the District Court, and the same proceedings shall be had as provided in such cases in that Court, except that where the claim of the plaintiff is such as is described in the first subdivision of Article 444, and there has been personal service of the citation, the Justice shall proceed and enter the judgment, although the plaintiff do not appear.

SEC. 989.  All issued in suits in the Courts of Justices of the Peace, are tried by the Justice, unless were the amount in controversy exceeds ten dollars, a party demand a trial of the issues of fact by a jury.

SEC. 990.  Where the amount in controversy exceeds ten dollars, either party may demand a trial by jury, upon paying to the Justice six dollars for the fees of the jurors or making affidavit that he is unable to pay the same.

SEC. 991.  When a jury is demanded, and the jury fee paid, or affidavit made, as provided in the preceding Article, the Justice shall issue an order to a Constable to summon from his precinct the requisite number of persons qualified to sit as jorors.

SEC. 992.  The jury shall be composed of twelve persons, who are disinterested, not related to either party, freeholders in the State, or householders in the county.

SEC. 993.  Each party is entitled to three challenges, without cause.

SEC. 994.  The jury fee shall be paid to the jurors who try the suit.

SEC. 995.  Judgment must be given by a Justice of the Peace, in open Court, at the conclusion of the trial, or at a time to which the suit or proceeding is expressly continued; otherwise the party against whom it is to be rendered, or his attorney, must be notified when it will be given.

SEC. 996.  A Justice of the Peace shall have no authority to grant a new trial in any case.

SEC. 997.  Section six of chapter four of the Seventh Title of the Second Part of this Code, respecting the docketing and lien of judgment, commencing at Article 458, and section seven, relating to proceedings to reverse, vacate and modify judgments, commencing at Article 468, have no application to the Courts of Justices of the Peace.

Title X. Of motions and notices in the courts of justices of the peace.
SEC. 998.  The provisions of the eighth Title of the Second Part of this Code, respecting motions and notices, commencing at Article 482, shall apply to similar proceedings in the Courts of Justices of the Peace, except that a separate motion docket shall not be kept.

SEC. 999.  Motions in the Courts of Justices of the Peace are not required to be in writing.  If not in writing, the Justice shall enter a short statement of the nature of the motion, at the time when it is made.  If filed in writing, the filing shall be noted in the docket.

SEC. 1000.  Notices in the Courts of Justices of the Peace, where service is required, must be in writing.

Title XI. Of suits in particular cases in the courts of justices of the peace.

SEC. 1001.  The provisions of the second Chapter of the ninth Title of the second Part of this Code, respecting suits for the partition of real or personal property, commencing at Article 543, apply to suits in the Courts of Justices of the Peace, for the partition of personal property, where the value thereof does not exceed one hundred dollars.

SEC. 1002.  The provisions of the eighth Chapter of the same Title, relating to suits for foreclosure of mortgages and enforcement of other liens, commencing at Article 558, apply to similar suits in the Courts of Justices of the Peace, where the Justice has jurisdiction of the amount.

SEC. 1003. The provisions of the ninth Chapter of the same Title, relating to remedies of sureties, commencing at Article 568, apply to similar cases in the Courts of Justices of the Peace.

SEC. 1004.  The provisions of the tenth Chapter of the same Title, relating to the trial of the right of property seized on attachment, sequestration, or execution, commencing at Article 575, apply to the Courts of Justices of the Peace in cases within their jurisdiction.

Title XII. Of the costs in the courts of justices of the peace.

SEC. 1005.  The provisions of the ninth Title of the Second Part of this Code, relating to costs in the District Courts, commencing at Article 492, shall apply to costs in the Courts of Justices of the Peace.

Title XIII. Of execution in the courts of justices of the Peace.

SEC. 1006.  The provisions of the thirteenth Title of the Second Part of this Code, relating to the execution of judgments of the District Courts, commencing at Article 628, shall apply to the execution of judgments of Justices of the Peace, except as herein provided.

SEC. 1007.  A Justice of the Peace shall not have the power conferred upon the Judge of the District Court by Articles 638, 704, 705, 707.

SEC. 1008.  Executions issued by Justices of the Peace shall be returnable in sixty days.

SEC. 1009.  Where the judgment is for the recovery of money or of personal property or its value, a stay of execution for three months shall be allowed, if one or more sureties to be approved by the Justice, appear before him and acknowledge themselves bound to the successful party in such sum as shall secure the amount of the judgment, interest and costs; which acknowledgment shall be entered by the Justice on his docket and shall have the force and effect of a judgment against the persons making the acknowledgment.  At the expiration of three months, execution shall issue against the debtor and his sureties for the original judgment, interest and costs, unless the same shall have been paid, or shall have been superseded by a certiorari from the District Court.  A certiorari discharges the sureties.

SEC. 1010.  Where the judgment is for the possession of real property or for the delivery of specific personal property, a stay of execution for three months shall be allowed, if the person against whom the judgment is rendered, cause to be delivered to the Justice a bond with one or more sureties, in such sum as the Justice shall direct, to the effect that such party will within said time, obtain a writ of certiorari to remove the proceeding to the District Court, and that during the possession of such property by him, he will not commit or suffer to be committed any waste thereon, or if it be personal property, that he will take good care of the same, and that if the judgment of the District Court be against him he will pay the value of the use and occupation of the property, from the time of the judgment of the Justice until the delivery of the property pursuant to the judgment of the District Court.

SEC. 1011.  If a certiorari be not obtained within the time mentioned in the bond, execution shall issue on the original judgment, and the successful party shall have his suit on the bond, for any injury done to the property since the judgment, and for the value of the use and occupation thereof.  If the certiorari be obtained, the bond shall be returned with the other papers, to the District Court.

SEC. 1012.  When the defendant has no property in the county liable to execution, it may be directed to the Sheriff of any county in the State where the defendant may have property.  In such cases, there shall be annexed to the execution a certificate by the Chief Justice of the county, attested by the seal of his office, that the officer issuing the same is a Justice of the Peace.  And the Sheriff of any other county receiving such writ, shall execute and return the same under the same penalties and responsibilities as in other cases.

Title XIV.  Of evidence in the courts of justices of the peace.

SEC. 1013.  The provisions the fourteenth Title of the Second Part of this Code, relating to evidence in the District Courts, commencing at Article 728, shall apply to the Courts of Justices of the Peace, except so much thereof as relates to depositions to perpetuate evidence, commencing at Article 787.

Title XV. Of the docket to be kept by justices of the peace, in civil cases.

SEC. 1014.  Every Justice of the Peace shall keep a docket for civil proceedings, in which he shall enter the title of all suits and civil proceedings, in the order in which they are commenced.  Such entry shall be made at the top of the page, and balance of the page shall be reserved for the entry of the subsequent proceedings, all of which shall be entered in the order in which they are had, with a statement of the proper date of each.

SEC. 1015.  The entries on the docket of a Justice of the Peace, in a suit or civil proceeding, will ordinarily be read as follows:
1.	The title of the suit, with a brief statement of the nature of the plaintiff’s demand, and the date.
2.	The issue of citation, to what officer delivered, and when returnable; date when issued.
3.	The return of the citation; whether served or not; date of service and return.
4.	The calling of the suit for trial; the appearance of the parties or either of them, or that neither party appeared.
5.	A brief statement of the defence, if any.
6.	Every continuance, stating at whose instance, and to what time.
7.	The trial; whether the same was by jury, or by the Justice; and the verdict if any.
8.	The judgment, and the time of rendering it.
9.	Taxation of the costs.
10.	Satisfaction of the judgment, if paid.
11.	Issue of execution; date thereof, and officer to whom delivered.
12.	Return of the execution, copying the return on the docket, with the proper date.
13.	Stay of execution; date.
14.	Service of certiorari; date.
15.	That all the papers and a copy of the docket entries were returned in obedience to the certiorari.


Title XVI.  General provisions respecting the mode of proceeding in the courts of justices of the peace.

SEC. 1016.  Where any authority is conferred upon the Judge or Clerk of the District Court, or any duty is required of either, in any portions of the Second Part of this Code, made applicable to proceedings in the Courts of Justices of the Peace, the same power shall be exercised by, and the same duty is required, of the Justice of the Peace, in similar cases in his Court, except as provided in Article 1007.

SEC. 1017.  Where any authority is given to, or duty required of the Sheriff, or any process is directed to be issued to him, by any portions of the Second Part of this Code, made applicable to proceedings in the Courts of Justices of the Peace, the same authority is hereby given to, and the same duty is required of any Sheriff or Constable to whom any process or notice, in a proceeding in the Court of a Justice of the Peace, may be delivered to be executed.  And the same penalties and responsibilities attach to a failure or refusal to discharge such duty.

SEC. 1018.  The same remedies are hereby given against Sheriffs and Constables for failure or refusal to perform their duties in the Courts of Justices of the Peace, which are given against Sheriffs for a failure or refusal to perform their duties in the District Courts in similar cases.

SEC. 1019.  The provisions of the fifteenth Title of the Second Part of this Code, being general provisions respecting the mode of proceeding in the District Courts in civil cases, commencing at Article 850, shall apply in like cases to all proceedings in the Courts of Justices of the Peace.

SEC. 1020.  The Courts of Justices of the Peace within the limits of incorporated cities may be held on every day in the week except the first, and except the fourth of July, the twenty-fifth of December and the second of March.

SEC. 1021.  All process from a Justice of the Peace, shall run in the name of “The State of Texas,” shall be directed to the Sheriff or any Constable of the county, shall command what is to be done, and shall be dated and signed by the Justice officially.

Repealing Clause

SEC. 1022.  The following Acts and parts of Acts are hereby repealed:
	Sections twelve, twenty-five, thirty, thirty-two, thirty-three, thirty-four, thirty-five, thirty-six, thirty-eight, thirty-nine, forty, forty-one, forty-two, forty-three, forty-four, forty-five, forty-six, forty-seven, forty-eight, forty-nine, fifty, fifty-one, fifty-two, fifty-three, fifty-four, fifty-six, fifty-seven, sixty, sixty-one, sixty-six, and sixty-seven, of the Act of March 20, 1848, to organize Justices Courts and to define the powers and jurisdiction of the same.
	Act of March 20, 1848, supplementary to an Act, to organize Justices Courts and to define the powers and jurisdiction of the same, approved 20th day of March, A.D. 1848.
	Act of December 20, 1849, to amend the fifty-fifth section of the Act to organize Justices Courts and to define the powers and jurisdiction of the same, approved March 20, 1848.
	Act of February 5, 1840, to provide a summary remedy to enable landlords or lessors to obtain possession of lands of tenements unlawfully detained or withheld by tenants.
	Act of March 15, 1848, to regulate proceedings in case of forcible entry and detainer.
	Section two of the Act of February 5, 1840, defining lawful enclosures and for other purposes.
	Sections two, three and four of the Act of January 16, 1843, concerning rents.
	Sections three, four and five of the Act of February 3, 1844, supplementary to an Act concerning rents.
	Act of January 31, 1852, to provide for the service of process issuing from Justices Courts, in certain cases.
	Act of February 13, 1854, regulating Justices Courts in the City of San Antonio.

SEC. 1023.  The repeal of the laws mentioned is the preceding Title shall not affect any right already existing or any proceeding already taken.

Part V. Of the mode of proceeding in the county courts in matters of probate.

Title I. General provisions relating to part five.

SEC. 1024.  The mode of proceeding in the County Courts in matters of probate, is by special proceedings.

SEC. 1025.  A special proceeding in the County Court, is commenced by oral application.

SEC. 1026.  There are only three kinds of special proceedings in the County Courts, in matters of probate:
1.	Administration.
2.	Guardianship.
3.	Settlement of insolvent estates.

SEC. 1027.  When a party makes any oral statement, either in favor of or against a particular proceeding, the Court may commit it to writing, or cause it to be committed to writing, and to be subscribed and sworn to by the party making it.

SEC. 1028.  The foundation of every proceeding is the citation, which is required to be served by posting, by personal service or by publication; and without such citation, in the manner in which each party is entitled to be served, the proceeding is void as to any party who had not actual notice.  But where a party is served in the manner in which service on him is required to be made, the proceeding can be as to such party, at most erroneous, and cannot be attacked as null.

SEC. 1029.  All citations returned served, shall therefore be recorded, with the return thereon, and such record shall be evidence.

SEC. 1030.  The citation from the County Court, instead of being accompanied by a copy of the application, contains a brief statement of the nature thereof and by whom made.

SEC. 1031.  All reports, returns, or exhibits, required to be made by executors, administrators, guardians, or trustees must be in writing, supported by affidavit.

SEC. 1032.  Every order of Court must be entered of record, and any supposed order, not entered of record, is a nullity.

SEC. 1033.  No order can be made otherwise than at a regular term, in open Court, after citation, unless the contrary be expressly stated by the law, which provides for such order, except orders, the object of which is to expedite the proceedings, or preserve the property of an estate, infant, person of unsound mind or insolvent; any such order may be made in vacation without notice.

SEC. 1034.  When citation is required to be posted, it means for ten days, at three of the most public places in the county, one of which shall be the Court House door, and no two of which shall be within the same city or town, to all persons interested, unless the contrary be expressed by the law which provides for such citation.

SEC. 1035. The county of Galveston shall be an exception to any provision which requires the public places at which a notice shall be posted, to be not within the same city or town.

SEC. 1036.  When a party is required to be cited, it means that he shall be cited in the same manner which is provided in like cases for the service of citation in the District Courts; except that where personal service is required, it shall, in all cases, be made ten days before the time at which the party is to appear, unless the Court or Chief Justice in vacation, otherwise direct by previous order.

SEC. 1037.  Where citation, or being cited, is spoken of, it means served as provided in the preceding Article.  When service by posting is meant, it is expressly so stated.

SEC. 1038.  The County Court shall exercise the same power as the District Court, in the appointment of special guardians; and an attorney to represent absent parties, who have not been personally served.

SEC. 1039. The mode of proceeding in the District Courts, established by the Second Part of this Code, applied to proceedings in the County Courts, in all cases where they are, in their nature, applicable to its organization and to the subject matter of its jurisdiction.

SEC. 1040.  There is no trial by jury in the County Court, except as provided in Title III, Chapter III.

SEC. 1041.  The thirteenth, fourteenth and fifteenth Titles of the Second Part of this Code, apply to similar proceedings in the County Court, without exception, unless clearly inapplicable.  And this shall include the general power to enforce its orders and judgments by attachment of the person of one who is contumacious.

SEC. 1042.  Executions from the County Court, shall be returnable in sixty days.

SEC. 1043.  The liability of officers for failure to perform any act required by the Second Part of this Code, made applicable to the County Court, and the remedy therefor, shall be the same in the County Court as in the District Court.

SEC. 1044.  When the term Court or Chief Justice is used in this Part of the Code, it means the County Court of the County where the proceeding is pending, and the Chief Justice of such County, unless it be otherwise stated.

SEC. 1045.  When the word “file” or “filed” is used in this Part of this Code, it means in the County Court where the proceeding is pending, unless a different meaning be expressed.

SEC. 1046.  The term executor includes executrix; administrator includes administratrix; the singular includes the plural; the plural the singular; the male the female; a party includes any number whether jointly or severally interested; the present and past tenses include the future; and the future includes the past.  If the general rules here stated should conflict with any special provision, they must yield to it.

Title II.  Of the settlement and distribution of the estates of deceased persons.

Chapter I. Preliminary provisions.

SEC. 1047.  The proceeding to settle and distribute the estate of a deceased person is called administration.

SEC. 1048.  The term estate of a deceased person, includes all the rights and obligations of the deceased, as they existed at the time of his decease, together with all that has accrued thereto since, and the new charges to which it becomes subject.

SEC. 1049.  The property reserved from forced sale by Article 717, does not form any part of the estate of a deceased person, where a constituent of the family survives.

SEC. 1050.  When a person dies, the estate vests in the persons entitled under the law regulating wills, and the descent and distribution of estates; but, upon the grant of letters testamentary or of administration, the executor or administrator becomes entitled to the possession of it, for the purpose of administration; and for that purpose only.

SEC. 1051.  A person is deemed to die, or to be dead, or deceased, within the meaning of this Part of this Code, 
1.   When he dies or is dead, in the ordinary sense.
2.   When he is a convict under sentence of imprisonment for life.

SEC. 1052.  No absence for any length of time, without being heard from will authorize an administration to be commenced on the estate of such absentee.

SEC. 1053.  The object of administration is, 
1.	To apply as much of the estate as may be necessary to the payment of the debts of the deceased.
2.	To distribute the estate, or the balance after the payment of debts, to the persons entitled to receive it.
3.	To preserve the estate; and if there be no creditors, or if after the payment of creditors, there be no person present in person or by attorney who is entitled to receive it, to preserve it until such person appear.

SEC. 1054.  It follows from the preceding Article, that if the persons entitled to receive the estate be present, and can agree as to the distribution thereof, and there no creditors, there is no necessity for administration.

SEC. 1055.  Incidental to administration is the recovery of the possession of the property, and partition between the estate and other part owners.

SEC. 1056.  Administration is effected by the aid of, 
1.	An executor appointed by the last will of the deceased and confirmed by the Court.
2.	An administrator appointed by the Court on application therefor.

SEC. 1057.  Where the wife dies, her husband surviving, administration is unnecessary, except as to any separate estate which may have belonged to her.  The husband continues to have the same power of disposition over the community property, which he possessed during the continuance of the marriage.  But he shall be required, on application of any one interested in the community, to return an inventory and appraisement of all such property, and to file a bond signed by one or more sureties, to be approved by and payable to the Chief Justice of the County, in an amount equal to the value of the whole of the community property, to the effect that he will faithfully administer the same and pay over one half of the surplus after the payment of the debts with which the whole is property chargeable, to such person or persons as shall be entitled to receive.

SEC. 1058.  The husband, in such case, is liable to be called to account at any time after one year form the date of the bond.

SEC. 1059.  Such bond is sueable, recoverable and in every other respect the same as the bond of an administrator.

SEC. 1060.  Where the husband or wife dies, intestate, leaving no child or children, and no separate estate, the common property passes to the survivor, charged with the debts of the community, and no administration is required.

SEC. 1061.  The distributees only of an estate are said to be “interested in the estate;” the distributes, creditors and the executor or administrator, are said to bes “intereted in the administration.”

SEC. 1062.  A distributee of an estate is one who is entitled to receive the whole or a part thereof, after the payment of the debts and compliance with all other obligations not created by will.  The term distributee includes legatees and devisees.

SEC. 1063.  The order of Court confirming the appointment of the executor, and the entry made during term or in vacation, of the fact that such executor has given bond and taken the oath, are called granting letters testamentary.

SEC. 1064.  The order of Court that such a person shall receive letters of administration on giving bond and taking the oath, and the entry made during term or in vacation, of the fact that bond has been filed and oath taken, are called granting letters of administration.

SEC. 1065.  When any thing is prescribed with reference to “the original grant of letters testamentary or of administration,” it refers to the time when an executor or administrator of the estate first gave bond and took the oath.  And if the word “original” be omitted, it refers to the time when the present executor or administrator gave bond and took the oath.

Chapter II. Of the time of commencing the administration of estates, and of the continuance thereof.

SEC. 1066.  The administration of an estate must be commenced within four years after the decease of the testator or intestate, and not after.

SEC. 1067.  The presumption is, after that time has elapsed, that there were no debts, or if any, that they are barred by the statute of limitations, and that the property if any, has gone into the possession of the person entitled to receive it.  If the contrary be the fact, either the creditor or the heir, or the State, if there be no heir, has a remedy in the District Court.

SEC. 1068.  But where letters testamentary or of administration shall have once been granted, no presumption is admissible, which is contrary to the record; and the persons interested in the administration may proceed after any lapse of time, to compel a settlement of an estate, which does not appear from the record, to have been closed.

Chapter III. Of the parties to administration.

SECTION 1 Who is entitled to Administer.

SEC. 1069.  Persons are entitled to administer in the following order:
1.	A person or persons named as executors in the last will of the deceased.
2.	The surviving husband or wife.
3.	The principal devisee or legatee of a testator.
4.	The relations of the deceased; the nearest in the order of descent, first; and so on.
5.	Any devisee or legatee.
6.	A creditor of the deceased.
7.	Any person of good character, residing in the county.

SEC. 1070.  If the person or persons named as executors all renounce, or are disqualified, or shall neglect to accept and qualify within twenty days after the will has been proved, or shall fail to present the will for proof within thirty days after the death of the testator, the person next in order becomes entitled to demand letters of administration.

SEC. 1071.  Where a person named as executor in a will, shall have renounced, he shall not be afterward appointed administrator of the same estate.  An executor is said to renounce when, being present or cited, he fails to claim letters testamentary.

SEC. 1072.  Where the husband appoints an executor or executors, and there is any community property, the surviving wife shall nevertheless have letters of administration as to the community property; and she and the executor or executors shall administer the same jointly, except that the power of the wife shall be equal to that of the executors, as to the community property.

SEC. 1073.  The following persons are incapable of receiving letters testamentary or of administration:
1.	Persons under twenty-one years of age, except surviving husband or wife, or person named as executor.
2.	Persons of unsound mind.
3.	Persons imprisoned under lawful process.
4.	Persons who have been convicted of any infamous crime.
	If a person under twenty-one years of age be named in the will as executor, and qualify, his acts as such shall be as valid as if he were of full age.

SEC. 1074.  Where applicants are equally entitled, the letters of administration shall be granted to the one who is most likely to administer the estate adventageously; or they may be granted to two or three of such applicants.
SEC. 1075.  Where one who is under twenty-one years of age at the time of proving the will, has been appointed executor, and has not qualified, he is entitled after coming of age, to demand letters testamentary, and a revocation of any letters of administration which may have been granted.

SEC. 1076.  An executor of an executor shall not, in consequence thereof, be executor of the first testator.

SEC. 1077.  Where a person named as executor was absent from the State, or confined by sickness, when the testator died, or when the will was proved, or had not actual notice of the appointment, whereby he was prevented from presenting the will for proof, within thirty days after the death of the testator, or from accepting and qualifying within twenty days after the proof of the will, he shall be allowed to accept and qualify as executor, at any time within sixty days after his return to the State, or his recovery from sickness, or notice of his appointment; and if in the meantime letters of administration have been granted to any other person, they shall be revoked.

SEC. 1078.  Where letters of administration shall have been granted, and it shall afterwards be discovered that the deceased left a lawful will, if such will be proved in the manner provided in this Act, and an executor be named therein, he shall be entitled to demand letters testamentary, and a revocation of the previous letters of administration.

SEC. 1079.  When a will of a person not a resident of this State at the time of his death, has been admitted to probate in any State or Territory of the United States, or in the District of Columbia, or in any other country, and the executor named in such will, has qualified, such executor or either of them, may file a copy of such will and of the probate thereof, and demand letters testamentary thereon, and the revocation of any letters of administration which may have been previously granted.  Bond shall be required in all such cases notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in the will.

SEC. 1080.  Where letters of administration have been granted to one, and other whose right is prior, makes application therefor, the letters shall be revoked, and granted to the person thus entitled.

SECTION 2 Where there is a contest about a will or the right to administer

SEC. 1081.  If the validity of a will, or the right to letters testamentary or of administration be contested, the Court shall without delay decide in favor of what appears to be the right of the case.  If an appeal be taken, or a certiorari and supersedeas be obtained, the person in whose favor the decision is made shall, notwithstanding, qualify and receive letters testamentary or of administration, as the ease may be.

SEC. 1082.  But if on appeal or certiorari by one of the applicants, the decision be that the person appealing or obtaining the certiorari was entitled in preference to the person appointed, he shall recover from the latter and his sureties, after citation in the County Court, all the fees which the latter may have received as executor or administrator.

SECTION 3 Of other parties to administration.
SEC. 1083.  All persons who are interested in the administration are necessary parties thereto.

SEC. 1084.  It follows that any person who is interested in the administration, can appear in his own right, and contest any proceeding which he deems prejudicial to his interest, or institute any proceeding which he deems necessary to protect his interest, unless it be a proceeding in which the distributees only are interested.

Chapter IV.  Of the place of commencing administration.

SEC. 1085.  Administration shall be commenced as follows:
1.	In the county where the deceased resided at the time of his death.
2.	If he did not resided in the State at the time of his death, then in the county where he died.
3.	If he neither resided at the time of his death, nor died in the State, then in the county there his nearest relation in the order of descent may reside, or in the county where the principal part of the estate may be situated.

SEC. 1086.  If the deceased resided in the State at the time of his death, or died therein, and administration be not commenced in the proper county, it shall be void; subject however to Article 541.

Chapter V. Of the commencement of administration.

SECTION 1.  Where the deceased left a will.

SEC. 1087.  Where the deceased left a will, administration is commenced by oral application to the Chief Justice of the proper county, in term time or vacation, for probate of the will and letters testamentary or of administration.

SEC. 1088.  The application may be made by any person interested in the administration.

SEC. 1089.  Notice of such application shall be given by citation duly posted, to all persons interested in the administration.

SEC. 1090.  A subpoena may be issued for any person in whose possession the will is supposed to be, to be present at the next term of the Court, and bring the will with him.

SEC. 1091.  At the next term of the Court after notice of the application has been duly posted, it is ready for trial.

SEC. 1092.  Where a will has been lost or destroyed, or cannot for any cause be produced, or is nuncupative, or is the informal disposition permitted to be made of their chattels, by a soldier in actual service or a mariner or seaman being at sea, it cannot be considered in the County Court, until a judgment of the District Court is obtained, establishing such will and the contents thereof.  Such judgment is received in the County Court as full proof.

SEC. 1093.  Where a written will is produced in Court it may be proved:
1.	By the testimony of one of the subscribing witnesses; or
2.	If none of the subscribing witnesses are living, or if they have become of unsound mind, or are beyond the limits of the State, by the testimony of two witnesses to the handwriting of the subscribing witnesses, and of the testator, or that he was unable to write his name; or
3.	By the testimony of two witnesses, who are acquainted with the handwriting of the deceased, that the whole of the will is in his handwriting; or
4.	Where the will of a person who did not reside in this State at the time of his death, has been regularly probated according to the laws of any State or Territory of the United States, or of the District of Columbia, or of any other country, by a copy thereof and of the probate thereof, attested by the Clerk of the Court in which such will has admitted to probate, and the seal of the Court, if there be a seal, together with a certificate from the Judge, Chief Justice, or presiding magistrate, as the case may be, that the said attestation is in due form.

SEC. 1094.  Where a subscribing witness is present to testify, the will is proved as follows:
1.	The witness testifies to his own signature, that he signed the will as a witness in the presence of the deceased, and that the deceased signed the will, or that some other person signed it for him in his presence, and by his direction, or that the deceased acknowledged to the witness that he had himself signed the will, or that some other person had signed it for him, in his presence and by his direction.
2.	It must appear that the deceased was twenty-one years of age, or upwards, and of sound mind, when he signed the will.
3.	It must appear that both the witnesses to the will were over fourteen years of age, when they witnessed it.

SEC. 1095.  Where a subscribing witness is not present to testify, the facts mentioned in subdivisions two and three, of the preceding Article, must be proved in connection with the proof mentioned in either subdivision two or three of Article 1093; but need not be proved in connection with the proof mentioned in subdivision four of said Article.

SEC. 1096.  Where the witnesses appear in open Court, their testimony shall be reduced to writing at the time, and be signed by them.

SEC. 1097.  When the will is proved as provided in Articles 1093, 1094 and 1095, the Court shall make an order to that effect, stating upon what testimony such order is made.

SEC. 1098.  The testimony upon which it is determined that a will is proved, both for and against, shall be recorded with the will; and in any suit that may afterwards be instituted, to contest its validity, if the witnesses be dead, or have become of unsound mind, or be resident without the State, and absent therefrom, or their testimony cannot for any other cause be obtained, such record shall be admissible in evidence, with the same effect as depositions in like cases.  On appeal, such testimony shall be admissible as primary evidence.

SEC. 1099.  Any person interested in a will may, within four years after the date of the order mentioned in Article 1097, commence suit in the District Court to contest its validity.

SEC. 1100.  In addition to the suit allowed by the preceding Article, as suit may be commenced by an heir, or legatee or devisee under a former will, or other person interested in the estate, to set aside a will on the ground of forgery or fraud, at any time within two years after the discovery of such forgery or fraud.

SEC. 1101.  Infants, persons of unsound mind, married women who have an interest adverse to that of their husbands, and persons imprisoned on execution under the sentence of a Court for a term of years less than life, and the representative of such person, shall have two years within which to commence either of the suits mentioned in the two preceding Articles, after the removal of their respective disabilities, or after the death of the person dying under such disability.

SEC. 1102.  Before granting letters testamentary, it must appear to the Court – 
1.	That the person is dead.
2.	That four years have not elapsed since his decease.
3.	That the Court has jurisdiction of the estate, as provided in Article 1085.
4.	That the will has been proved as prescribed in Articles 1093, 1094, and 1095.
5.	That the person to whom the letters are to be granted is named as executor in the will.
6.	That the person named as executor is not disqualified under Article 1073.
7.	That the executor has given bond as provided in Article 1106, or that the will be dispensed with the giving of a bond.
8.	That the executor has taken and subscribed the oath as provided in Article 1105
	The first three subdivisions of this Article have no application, where letters of administration have been previously granted in the same Court; the first two do not apply where the application is made under subdivision four of Article 1093; and the first six have no application where the will is established by judgment of the District Court, as provided in Article 1092.

SEC. 1103.  When the will is admitted to probate, it is the duty of the Court to grant letters testamentary to the executor or executors named in the will, if any there be, or to such of them as are not disqualified and are willing to accept the trust and qualify according to law, within ten days after such probate.

SEC. 1104.  The order in such case (which is the same mentioned in Article 1097) shall be, that the will is proved and ordered to be recorded, and that the executor, naming him, receive letters testamentary thereon, upon filing bond and taking the oath within then days.

SEC. 1105.  The executor shall take and subscribe an oath as follows, before the Chief Justice: “I do solemnly swear that the writing which has been offered for probate, is the last will of ______ _____________, so far as I know or believe; and that I will well and truly perform all the duties of executor under the said will.  So help me God”

SEC. 1106.  The executor, unless the testator direct otherwise, shall enter into bond with one or more sufficient sureties, to be approved of by, and payable to, the Chief Justice, in an amount not less than double the estimated value of the personal property and of the use and occupation of the real estate for four years.  This Article is subject to the provisions of Chapter ten, Section two.

SEC. 1107.  If no executor is named in the will, or the executors named are disqualified, or renounce the executorship, or neglect to accept and qualify within ten days after the admission of the will to probate, letters of administration shall without farther notice, be granted to the person who would be entitled to receive the same, had the deceased died intestate.

SEC. 1108.  If any will be proved, and letters testamentary thereon granted, and such will be afterwards set aside, the letters testamentary shall be revoked, and letters of administration granted to the person entitled.

SEC. 1109.  When the bond is filed and approved, and the oath taken, which may be done in vacation, an order stating the fact shall be entered of record.

SEC. 1110.  Letters testamentary shall consist of copies of the orders mentioned in Articles 1104, and 1109, with their proper dates, and the additional statement that the copies are given for the purpose of proving the capacity of ______________ as executor of the will of _______________ deceased.  They shall be dated, and attested by the Chief Justice, with the seal of the Court.

SECTION 2 Where the deceased did not leave a will or no will has been discovered.

SEC. 1111.  Where the deceased did not leave a will, or where no will has been discovered, the administration is commenced by oral application for letters of administration.

SEC. 1112.  Such application may be made by any person.

SEC. 1113.  Notice of such application shall be given by citation, duly posted, to all persons interested in the administration.

SEC. 1114.  At the next term of Court after notice of the application has been duly posted,  it is ready for trial.

SEC. 1115.  Where the application for letters of administration is made by a creditor, and those who are interested in the estate do not desire the grant of letters of administration, they can defeat the application entirely by filing a bond with one or more sureties, to be approved by the Chief Justice, in double the amount of the debt, to the effect that the obligors will pay the debt of the applicant, upon the establishment thereof by suit in any Court having jurisdiction of the amount. The suit may be commenced immediately on such bond, and if the plaintiff recover, he shall recover his costs, as in other cases.  If the claim be admitted, the bond shall be to the effect that the obligors will pay the same within six months form the date thereof.

SEC. 1116.  Several creditors may authorize one of their number to apply for letters in behalf of them all; and in such case, the issue of letters cannot be prevented without giving bond, as provided in the preceding Article, to pay all claims so represented.

SEC. 1117.  Where the application for letters of administration is made by a person who is not interested in the administration, it shall not be granted, unless it appear to the Court that there is not in the county any surviving husband or wife, or other relation of the deceased, nor the agent of any such person.

SEC. 1118.  Where application is made for letters of administration by a person who is not interested in the administration, it may be defeated by the opposition of any one who is interested in the estate.

SEC. 1119.  The surviving husband or wife, and if there be no such survivor, the sole heir, or all the heirs where there are more than one, or one of several heirs to the exclusion of any one not equally entitled, may, by power of attorney duly authenticated, authorize any person to administer in his stead.

SEC. 1120.  Before granting letters of administration, it must appear to the Court, 
1.	That the person is dead.
2.	That four years have not elapsed since his decease.
3.	That the Court has jurisdiction of the estate, as provided in Article 1085.
4.	That the person to whom the letters are about to be granted, is entitled thereto under Article 1069 or 1119, and is not disqualified under Article 1073, 1115 or 1117.
5.	That the bond has been given as provided in Article 1124.
6.	That the oath has been taken as provided in Article 1123.

SEC. 1121.  Where any one of the persons mentioned in Article 1069 or 1119, other than a creditor or disinterested person, applied for letters of administration, the application can only be defeated by reason of one or more of the provisions of the preceding Article; of by the application of one who has a prior right to administer.

SEC. 1122.  When the facts mentioned in Article 1120, are established, an order shall be entered to the effect that administration of the estate of the deceased is ordered, and that such a person, naming him, shall receive letters of administration thereon, upon filing the bond and taking the oath within ten days.

SEC. 1123.  The administrator shall take and subscribe the following oath:
	“I do solemly swear, that I will well and truly perform all the duties of administrator of the estate of ______________, deceased.”

SEC. 1124.  The administrator shall enter into bond with one more sufficient sureties, to be approved of by and payable to, the Chief Justice, in an amount not less than double the estimated value of the personal property and the use and occupation of the real estate for four years.

SEC. 1125.  If the person in whose favor the question of the right to administer is decided, fail to file the bond and take the oath prescribed in the two preceding Articles within ten days after the order for administration, the letters shall, without further notice, be granted to any other applicant who is next entitled, and who will give the bond and take the oath.

SEC. 1126.  When the bond is filed and approved, and the oath taken, which may be done in vacation, an order to that effect shall be entered of record.

SEC. 1127.  Letters of administration shall consist of copies of the orders mentioned in articles 1122 and 1126, with their proper dates, and the additional statement that the copies are given for the purpose of proving the capacity of __________, as administrator of the estate of ___________, deceased.  They shall be dated and attested by the Chief Justice, with the seal of the Court.

Chapter VI. Of the bond and oath of the executor or administrator.

SEC. 1128.  Where a married woman may be appointed executrix or administratrix, she may jointly with her husband, or without her husband, if he be absent from the State, execute such bond as the law requires, and acknowledge the same before the Chief Justice; and such bond shall bind her estate in the same manner as if she were unmarried, but shall not bind her husband as surety unless he sign and be approved as such.

SEC. 1129.  A bond executed by a person appointed by a will, or surviving husband or wife, under twenty-one years of age, as executor or administrator, shall be as valid as if he or she was of full age.

SEC. 1130.  In addition to the requirements of Articles 873, 874, 875 and 876, the Chief Justice shall be careful not to take as sureties, persons who are bound in too many other bonds.

SEC. 1131.  All bonds may be approved and official oaths administered, and the entry of the order thereof made in vacation

SEC. 1132.  All bonds and official oaths shall be immediately recorded and filed.

SEC. 1133.  Where it is not otherwise provided, a bond shall be required to be given and an oath to be taken, within ten days.

SEC. 1134.  A surety may apply to be relieved from his bond; and upon notice to the executor or administrator, he shall be required to give a new bond within ten days, and in the meantime to refrain from acting as executor or administrator, except to preserve the property committed to his charge.

SEC. 1135.  If a new bond be given and approved, the former surety or sureties so applying, shall be discharged from any liability for the misconduct of the principal, after the approval of such new bond.

SEC. 1136.  The provisions of Article 1134 shall apply where additional security is required under Article 879.

SEC. 1137.  The remedy upon every bond filed in the county Court, may be by citation to the sureties, to show cause why judgment should not be rendered against them in that Court; where the liability of the principal has not already been established, he shall be included in the citation.

SEC. 1138.  Such remedy may be commenced within four years next after the death, resignation, removal or discharge of the executor or administrator, and not after; provided, that infants, persons of unsound mind, and their representatives, shall have at least two years within which to prosecute such remedy, after the removal of their respective disabilities, or after the death of one dying under disability.

SEC. 1139.  The sureties on a bond are discharged when the whole penalty has been recovered; but not before.

Chapter VII.  Of the collection of the estate.

SEC. 1140.  It is the duty of the executor or admininstrator, immediately after receiving letters, to collect and take into possession the personal property, books, title papers, and other papers, belonging to the estate.

SEC. 1141.  If the executor, or administrator, or other person interested in the administration, shall file an affidavit stating that the affiant has good cause to believe that any person, in such affidavit named, has concealed or embezzled any personal property, books, title papers or other papers, belonging to the estate, the Court shall have power to cause such person to appear and to examine him on oath for the discovery of the same.

SEC. 1142.  If it be found on trial, that such person unlawfully detain any of the property or things enumerated in the preceding Article, the Court may compel the delivery thereof to the executor or administrator.

SEC. 1143.  The same proceedings which are provided in the two preceding Articles, may be had, in all cases, to compel the delivery to the executor or administrator, of all or any of the property or things therein enumerated, which were in the possession of the deceased at the time of his death, although they be not concealed, but be detained on a claim of right.

SEC. 1144.  If the deceased held or owned any property in common, or as part owner with another person, the executor or administrator shall be entitled to possession thereof in common with the surviving part owner or part owners, in the same manner as the deceased was entitled thereto in his lifetime.

Chapter VIII.  Of the inventory and appraisment.

SECTION 1 Of the inventory.

SEC. 1145.  It is the duty of every executor or administrator, as soon as he shall have collected the estate, and within thirty days after taking the oath and giving bond, to return a true and perfect inventory of all the real and personal property, books, title papers, other papers and evidence of debt due or to become due, belonging to the estate.

SEC. 1146.  The inventory shall describe the property, books and papers, and shall contain a list of the debts due or to become due to the deceased, stating the names of the debtors, the date of the contract, the amount of interest due thereon, and the rates of interest.

SEC. 1147.  If any property, books, title papers, other papers, or evidences of debt, were held or owned by the deceased in common with another or others, it shall be distinctly stated in the inventory what items thereof were so held, and the names and relationship of the surviving part owners, if any.

SEC. 1148.  Annexed to such inventory, shall be the affidavit of the executor or administrator, that it is a full inventory and description of all the real and personal property, books, papers, evidences of debt, and of all debts due or to become due, belonging to the estate, as far as he has debted to the deceased, in any contract, at the time of his death, except as stated in the inventory, (if at all).

SEC. 1149.  Where the husband dies, the wife surviving, or a parent dies leaving a child or children under twenty one years of age and unmarried, or a daughter unmarried, of any age, if the provisions for one year, exempted by the seventh subdivision of Article 717, be not found in kind among the property left by the deceased, an equivalent thereto in money shall, on return of the inventory and appraisement, be ordered to be paid to such survivor or survivors, as a claim of the fourth class, provided such survivor or survivors have not sufficient means for their support.

SECTION 2 Of the apprisement.

SEC. 1150.  As soon as the executor or administrator has collected the estate and prepared the inventory, he shall cause the real and personal property not including claims due or to become due to the estate, to be separately appraised by three disinterested householders of the county.

SEC. 1151.  Before entering upon their duties, the appraisers shall make affidavit that they are not interested in the estate, nor of kin to any person interested therein, and that they will, according to the best of their abilities, view and appraise the personal property to them produced, and the real property described in the inventory.  The affidavit shall be endorsed on the paper containing the appraisement.

SEC. 1152.  The appraisors shall view and appraise the peasonal property of the estate, except claims due or to become due; the real property may be appraised without a view.  Wild stock which cannot be gathered, need not be inventoried or appraised, but may be disposed of under Article 1191.

SEC. 1153.  The appraised value shall be set oposite each item in the inventory; the real property shall be computed separately from slaves and other personal property; and the other personal property shall be computed separately from slaves.  The appraisers, or any two of them, shall state in writing on the inventory, that the amount set opposite each article, is its appraised value, and sign their names thereto.

SEC. 1154.  The appraisers shall each receive two dollars per day, for every day they may be necessarily engaged in making the appraisement.

SECTION 3 Miscellaneous provisions respecting inventory and appraisement.

SEC. 1155.  Similar inventories and appraisements shall be filed, of all personal property which shall come to the possession of the executor or administrator, and of all real property that  may come to his knowledge, after the first inventory.

SEC. 1156.  Inventories and appraisements shall be filed, and a term shall be permitted to pass, in order that objections may be made; if no objections be made, or if made and overruled, of after the proper corrections shall have been made, they shall be entered of record.

SEC. 1157.  It shall be the duty of the Court at each term thereof, to enquire whether all inventories, appraisements and accounts of sales have been duly returned, and to cite and compel all delinquents to comply with the law.

SEC. 1158.  The Chief Justice, of his own motion, or on motion of any person interested in the administration, may cite the executor or administrator to show cause why a more perfect inventory and appraisement should not be returned by him; and if at the trial thereof, it appear that any property of the estate has not been included in the inventory, or has not been appraised as required by law, or has not been justly appraised, the executor or administrator shall be required to return a new or additional inventory and appraisement.

SEC. 1159.  When a re-appraisement is ordered, the order shall appoint the appraisers.

SEC. 1160.  Inventories and appraisements shall be evidence in any suit against the executor or administrator, by any person interested in the administration, but shall not be conclusive, if it be shown that the property or any part thereof was sold in good faith for less than the appraisement, or did not belong to the estate.

Chapter IX. Of partition between the estate and other part owners.

SEC. 1161.  Where property belongs to the estate and other persons, as tenants in common or part owners, on application to the Court, after citation to all persons interested in the estate and as part owners, and citation by posting all persons interested in the administration, an order shall be made for the appointment of three commissioners householders of the county where the property is situated, whose duty it shall be to appraise and divide the property.

SEC. 1162.  The order appointing the commissioners shall describe the property, and state the proportion to which each party is entitled; and if one of the parts is a homestead, it shall be so stated; and the commissioners shall have the same power that is conferred upon commissioners for partition, under the provisions of the second Chapter of Title nine, of the second Part of this Code.

SEC. 1163.  The commissioners shall take an oath faithfully and impartially to discharge their duties, which shall be endorsed on the back of the copy of the order, and shall be signed by them.

SEC. 1164.  If the commissioners report that the property cannot be divided without greatly diminishing the value thereof, and the report is confirmed, the Court shall order a sale of the property on such terms as shall appear to be most for the advantage of all parties, and cause the proceeds to be properly divided.

SEC. 1165.  If one of the parts be the homestead, situated in a town or city, the sale, although ordered, shall not be made, unless the amount bid exceed the sum of two thousand dollars.

SEC. 1166.  Where one of the parts is the homestead and a sale takes place, the proceeds are to be held, or disposed of by the Court, in the manner provided by Articles 724 and 725 of this Code.

SEC. 1167.  Partition shall not be made of the common property of husband and wife, charged with the debts of the marriage, until the general distribution of the estate is ready to be made.  But partition between the common and separate property may be had at any time.

Chapter X. Of general mode of administering estates.

SECTION 1 Of the general power and duties of executors or administrators, as to the property of estates.

SEC. 1168.  The personal property, except slaves, passes to the executor or administrator, to be disposed of as provided in Articles 1186, 1190 and 1191, unless otherwise ordered by the Court; and a sale of such property cannot be attacked, except for fraud in the purchaser.

SEC. 1169.  Real property, and slaves on the other hand, merely pass to the possession of the executor or administrator, to be preserved and hired or rented as provided in Articles 1174, 1175 and 1176, to be sold by order of Court, if necessary for the payment of debts under Article 278. and if not required to be sold for the payment of debts, to be distributed or delivered up to the persons entitled to the remainder of the estate.

SEC. 1170.  It follows from the preceding Article, that executors and administrators may sue and be sued for the possession of real property or slaves, but that the title to such property cannot be affected by any suit, to which the persons entitled to receive the remainder of the estate are not parties.

SEC. 1171.  The power of the executor over the testator’s estate, before grant of letter testamentary, shall extend to the burial of the deceased, in a manner suitable to his condition, the payment of the necessary funeral expenses, and the taking care of the estate; and, if the will be rejected; or if the Court decide that such person is disqualified to act as executor, or if he never qualify as executor, he shall not be liable as an executor of his own wrong, unless he refuse to deliver up the estate to the person authorized to receive the same; but shall in all cases be liable for waste or mismanagement.

SEC. 1172.  It is the duty of the executor or administrator, to take care of the property, real and personal, of the estate, as a prudent man would take care of his own property; and, if there be any buildings belonging to the estate, it shall be his duty to keep the same in tenantable repair, extraordinary casualties excepted.

SEC. 1173.  All reasonable expenses incurred by the executor or administrator, in making such repairs, on sufficient proof thereof, shall be allowed by the Court.

SEC. 1174.  If there be slaves belonging to an estate, which are not attached to a plantation or manufactory, and it be not necessary to sell them at once for the payment of debts, and no other disposition of them directed to be made by the will, it shall be the duty of the executor or administrator to hire them to a responsible person or persons, for the best price that can be obtained, having in view their proper treatment.

SEC. 1175.  If there be a plantation and slaves, or a manufactory and slaves belonging to the estate, and the disposition thereof be not specially directed by will, and if the same be not required to be at once sold for the payment of debts, it shall be the duty of the executor or administrator to carry on such plantation or manufactory, or rent the same and hire out the slaves, as shall appear to him to be most for the interest of the estate.  In coming to a determination he shall take into consideration the condition of the estate, and the necessity that may exist for future sale of such property for the payment of claims or legacies, and shall not extend the time of renting or hiring any of the property beyond what may consist with the speedy settlement of the estate.  And any one who is interested in the estate, may upon good cause shown, after citation to the executor or administrator, obtain an order controlling his action in this particular.

SEC. 1176.  If there be other improved real property belonging to the estate, the executor or administrator shall lease it, subject to the necessities of the administration; and so, of any real property, that may produce an income, except by the cutting of timber.

SEC. 1177.  If the deceased has left a crop ungathered or in an unfinished state, so that the estate would suffer loss from the want of additional labor, the executor or administrator may procure such labor to be performed as may be indispensable to the saving of such crop; and all sums of money paid for any such labor, if approved by the Court shall be allowed as expenses of administration.

SEC. 1178.  The executor or administrator is not allowed to take any of the property of the estate at its appraised value, but is responsible for the appraised value, unless he show that it was sold for a less amount lawfully and in good faith.

SEC. 1179.  The executor or administrator shall use such diligence as a prudent man would use were it his own property, to collect every claim due to the estate, and to recover the possession of all property to which the state hath a right, provided there is a reasonable prospect that such claim can be collected or such property recovered; and in default thereof, he and his sureties are liable for the amount of the claim and value of the property lost by his neglect.

SECTION 2 Where there are directions in a will, as to the administration of the estate.

SEC. 1180.  Directions in a will for the management of the estate, or part thereof, of for the sale of property, must be confirmed by an order of the Court, before the executor or administrator will be authorized, as against creditors and forced heirs, to pursue the same, where they differ from the mode of administration prescribed by this Part of this Code.

SEC. 1181.  Where there are such directions in a will, notice shall be given by citation published at least once a week for four weeks successively, or if there be no newspaper printed regularly in the county, by citation duly posted, to all persons interested in the administration, and by citation duly served on the forced heirs of the deceased, if any, to appear and show cause why such directions should not be pursued.

SEC. 1182.  At the trial, if it appear that the estate is solvent, and that the directions of the will, will not materially delay the creditors, any objections made by creditors shall be disregarded; and if there be no forced heirs, or if they do not object, or if the directions can be pursued without diminishing, or incumbering the portion of the forced heirs, an order shall be made confirming the directions in the will, and the estate shall be administered accordingly; otherwise an order shall be made either wholly annulling the directions of the will, or confirming the directions therein to one quarter of the residue of the estate, after the payment of debts and discharge of all obligations not created by the will itself.

SEC. 1183.  A testator may direct by his will, that no action be had in the County Court in the administration of his estate, except,
1.	To prove and record the will.
2.	To prove and record the will and return an inventory and appraisement of the estate.
3.	He may direct that the person named as his executor shall not be required to give bond.
4.	If the direction contained in the third subdivision of this Article, be not expressed, the direction contained in the first or second, shall not exempt the executor rom giving bond as in other cases.
5.	If the will merely direct that no administration be had on the estate, it shall be construed to mean no administration except to prove and record the will.

SEC. 1184.  Objection cannot be made by a forced heir or creditor, to any direction mentioned in the preceding Article, except as to the bond; and such objection when made by a creditor or creditors, may be obviated in the manner provided by Articles 1115 and 1116.

SEC. 1185.  When a will contains directions that no action be had in the County Court in the administration of the estate, except to prove and record the same, or to prove and record it and return an inventory and appraisement, no other provisions of this Part of this Code, except as declared in subdivision four of Article 1183, shall apply to such estate; but the same shall become like any other property to be administered under a power, chargeable in the hands of the trustee, and liable to execution in any Court having jurisdiction.

SECTION 3 All the personal property, except slaves to be sold, unless otherwise ordered by will.

SEC. 1186.  The executor or administrator, as soon as practicable after the appraisement, shall sell at public sale all the personal property belonging to the estate, except slaves and specific legacies, and personal property necessary to carry on a plantation or manufactory, giving such credit as he may deem most advantageous to the estate, not exceeding six months, and taking notes with one or more sufficient sureties for the purchase money.

SEC. 1187.  If any testator direct his personal estate, or any part thereof, not to be sold, the same shall be reserved from sale, unless such sale be necessary for the payment of debts.

SEC. 1188.  The executor or administrator shall keep or cause to be kept a true account of the sales made, making a list thereof, specifying each article sold, the price for which it was sold, and the name of the purchaser, and shall annex to such list an affidavit, stating that it is a true account of the sales made by him at the time specified, and shall file it within thirty days after the sale.  Such accounts shall be recorded, after allowing one term for objections to be made thereto.

SEC. 1189.  The provisions of Chapter four, Title thirteen, of the second Part of this Code, commencing at Article 675, so far as the same relate to the advertisement and sale of personal property other than slaves, and are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Chapter, shall apply to the advertisement and sale of such property by an executor or administrator; the executor or administrator being substituted for the Sheriff, the estate for the debtor, and persons interested in the administration only for the creditor.

SEC. 1190.  The executor or administrator may sell any of the personal property of the estate, except slaves, at private sale, if it appear to him to be for the interest of the estate; but he shall be responsible for its being sold for a fair price, and shall make return of such sale within thirty days.

SEC. 1191.  If the executor or administrator shall represent to the Court on oath, that there is wild stock belonging to the estate which he is nanable to collect or command, the Court may order that the same be sold at public auction, without taking an inventory or making appraisement thereof, on such credit as the Court may deem reasonable, not exceeding six months, taking notes with good and sufficient security for the purchase money.

SEC. 1192.  Such sale shall be advertised, made, returned and confirmed the same as sales of real property and slaves

SECTION 4 Miscellaneous provisions respecting the duties and liabilities of the executor or administrator.

SEC. 1193.  The executor or administrator may cause an entry to be made on the record, that a certain person who resides in the county is his attorney, and as such authorized to transact for him all business of the administration, or the power may be for a limited purpose; and in such case, the attorney shall have power accordingly.

SEC. 1194.  If such power be general, all citations and notices required to be served on the executor or administrator, may be served on such attorney.  If it be limited, all citations and notices which relate to the business which the attorney is authorized to transact, may be served on him.

SEC. 1195.  Where there are several executors or administrators, a majority may do any act required to be done; but less than a majority cannot do any set except, 
1.	Reject a claim
2.	Any set which is for the advantage of the estate.
3.	Resist a wrong doer.
4.	Apply to the Court for an order to compel the other executor or administrator to join in doing an act which ought to be done.

SEC. 1196.  The preceding Article does not apply to any return, report or account which the executors or administrators are required to make, nor to any act which they are expressly ordered by the Court to perform; but the executor or administrator who fails or neglects to join or do a like act, liable, according to the circumstances of the case, be such neglect or failure.

SEC. 1197.  Where are several co-executors, one is not responsible for the acts of the others, unless they give a joint bond; but each is responsible for such assets as come to his hands, or are lost by his neglect.

SEC. 1198.  Co-administrators are responsible for the acts of each, to all persons interested in the administration; but if they give separate bonds, the sureties of one shall be liable to the others for the acts of their principal.

SEC. 1199.  Where an executrix or administratrix is a married woman she shall nevertheless act in the discharge of her duties as such, in all respects the same as if she were unmarried.

SEC. 1200.  The executor or administrator may, when he thinks it will be for the interest of the estate, receive property or other claims in payment of a debt due the estate; but he and his sureties will be required, if called to account for such debt, to prove that the receipt of the property or claim in payment thereof, was at the time a prudent exercise of the discretion hereby conferred.

SEC. 1201.  When a mortgagee dies, his executor or administrator, on receipt of the amount due on the mortgage, is authorized to release the mortgage.

SEC. 1202.  The executor or administrator shall account for any claim due from him to the testator or intestate, in the same manner as if it were so much money come into his hands since the commencement of the administration.

SEC. 1203.  If the executor or administrator, directly or indirectly, purchase any part of the estate, upon the application of any person interested in the administration, an order shall be made that such part shall be held in trust for the estate; and the executor or administrator shall only be entitled to retain in lieu thereof, the amount he shall prove to have been paid by him therefor.  This includes the purchase of claims.

SEC. 1204.  All interest received by the executor, or administrator, is assets in his hands; and if he lend the money of the estate, or use it for his private purposes, he shall be chargeable with interest thereon, to be compounded every six months.

SEC. 1205.  The Court shall exercise equitable control, in making the executor or administrator accountable for interest accruing to the estate; and for that purpose may take testimony and examine the executor or administrator on oath.

SEC. 1206.  When the deceased shall have made a contract for the purchase of property, and died without having completed the payment, or provided by will for the completion thereof, or the will has been annulled under Article 1182, and the completion thereof would be beneficial to the estate, and not injurious to creditors, the executor or administrator may, by order of the Court, complete such payment out of the assets in his hands but if the Court should be of opinion, that after the payments debts, there will not be sufficient assets to pay for such property, the Court may order the executor or administrator to sell at public sale, all the right, title, interest and claim of the deceased in and to such property; to be sold in same manner as like property belonging wholly to the estate.

SEC. 1207.  The rights, powers, and duties of executors and administrators, shall be governed by the principles of the common law, where the same do not conflict with the provisions of this Act.

Chapter XI.  Of claims for money against estates.

SECTION 1 Of the exhibition and establishment of claims for money.

SEC. 1208.  Within fifteen days after filing bond and taking the oath, the executor or administrator, if such notice shall not have been previously given by a former executor or administrator, shall cause to be published in some newspaper regularly printed in the county, if there be one, a notice that all claims for money not presented to him for allowance within one year from a certain day (which shall be the day on which the filing of the bond and taking the oath were complete) will be postponed until the claims presented within that time are paid; and he shall also, within said time, cause the same notice to be posted in three of the most public places in the county, not within the same city or town, one of which shall be the Court-house door.  Such notice shall be published at least once a week for six successive weeks.

SEC. 1209.  If a newspaper be not regularly printed in the county, such notice shall be published in the newspaper printed (in the State) nearest the county seat of the county where the administration is pending, if there be one printed regularly within one hundred miles.  And, in such case the notice shall also be posted as prescribed in the preceding Article.

SEC. 1210.  If there be no newspaper printed regularly as often as once a week, in the State, within one hundred miles of the county seat of the county where administration is pending, such notice shall only be posted as prescribed in Article 1208.

SEC. 1211.  If the executor or administrator fail to cause notice to be given, as prescribed in the three preceding Articles, he shall be liable for any damage which any person may sustain by reason of the failure of such person to present his claim for allowance within the year, unless it appear that such person had notice of the death of the deceased.  If notice be published by one of several co-executors or co-administrators, it shall be sufficient.

SEC. 1212.  The term “within the year,” and “after the year,” as used in this Chapter, mean within or after a year from the original grant of letters testamentary or of administration.

SEC. 1213.  The provisions of this Chapter apply only to claims for money; but they apply to claims for uncertain damages for injury or breach of contract, as well as to claims the amount of which are susceptible of being ascertained by calculation.

SEC. 1214.  The provisions of this Chapter do not apply to legacies or to claims acknowledged by will.  But a claim acknowledged by will, may be resisted by a creditor, and reduced to the class of a legacy, if proved not to have been really due.

SEC. 1215.  A claim is said to be “allowed” or “rejected” by the executor or administrator, and to be “approved” or “disapproved” by the Court; those terms referring, when used by the Court, to the claim and not to the action of the administrator.

SEC. 1216.  The executor or administrator shall not allow, and the Court shall not approve any claim, unless it be accompanied by an affidavit of the claimant, “that nothing has been paid or delivered towards the satisfaction of such claim, except what is mentioned or credited, (if any,) that there are no counter-claims known to affiant, which have not been allowed, (if any,) and that the sum claimed is justly due.”

SEC. 1217.  Where the claim is not founded on an instrument in writing or an account, in addition to the statements required by the preceding Article, the affidavit must state the facts on which the claim is founded.

SEC. 1218.  Where a claim belongs to a corporation, the cashier, treasurer or managing agent, shall make the affidavit required to authenticate it.

SEC. 1219.  When an affidavit is made by an officer of a corporation, executor, administrator, trustee, assignee, or attorney, it shall be sufficient to state in such affidavit, “that he has made diligent enquiry and examination, and that he does verily believe that nothing has been paid or delivered towards the satisfaction of such claims, except the amount credited, (if any,) that there are no counter-claims which have not been allowed, (if any,) and that the sum claimed is justly due,”

SEC. 1220.  Where a claim is assigned after the decease of the debtor, the affidavit shall be made by the person who held the debt at the death of the debtor, as well as by the assignee.

SEC. 1221.  A claim which the executor or administrator held against the deceased at the time of his death, or which has since accrued under the second subdivision of Article 1247, is exhibited by being filed, verified by the affidavit of the executor or administrator; after which, it takes the same course as other claims.

SEC. 1222.  The provisions of Chapter six, Title fourteen, of the Second Part of this Code, commencing at Article 762, apply to affidavit to authenticate claims.

SEC. 1223.  The mode of presenting a claim to the executor or administrator is, 
1.	If it be founded upon an instrument in writing, by delivering to him a written statement of the amount claimed together with a copy of the instrument and of the affidavit required by Article 126, and exhibiting the original.
2.	If it be founded on an account, by delivering to him a copy of the account and of the affidavit required by Article 1216.
3.	If it be not founded on a written instrument or account, by delivering to him a copy of the affidavit required by Articles 1216 and 1217, and exhibiting the original.
	When the affidavit is not made by the claimant, the affidavit under Article 1219 is substituted for the one under 1216; and if the claim has been assigned since the decease of the debtor, the affidavit mentioned in Article 1220 must accompany either of the others.

SEC. 1224.  When a claim is presented to the executor or administrator, authenticated in the manner prescribed in Articles 1216, 1217, 1219, or 1220, he shall endorse thereon, or annex thereto, a memorandum in writing signed by him, stating the time of its presentment, and that he allows or rejects it, or what portion thereof he allows, if any.

SEC. 1225.  The failure or refusal of an executor or administrator to endorse on or annex to, any claim presented to him, his allowance or rejection thereof, shall be deemed to be a rejection; and in such case, the costs, if the claim be established, shall be adjudged against the executor or administrator, to be paid out of his own estate.

SEC. 1226.  A rejection by one of several executors or administrators, is a rejection of the claim; and, where there are several executors or administrators, the claim is rejected, if it be not allowed by a majority.

SEC. 1227.  After a claim has been presented to the executor or administrator, and allowed or rejected, the claimant shall file it.

SEC. 1228.  When a claim, or part thereof has been rejected, the claimant, if he do not submit thereto, shall cause the executor or administrator to be cited to appear at the next term of the Court, and show cause why it should not be approved.

SEC. 1229.  At each term of the Court, all claims which have been allowed and filed shall be examined, and approved or disapproved by an order duly entered; and whether a claim is approved or not, the order shall assign to it its proper class.

SEC. 1230.  At each term of the Court, in like manner, all claims which the executor or administrator shall have been cited to answer, shall be examined, and approved or disapproved, and classed.

SEC. 1231.  When the executor or administrator is cited to show cause why a claim should not be approved, the endorsement thereon or annexed thereto, of its rejection, shall be taken to be true without proof, unless it be denied under oath.

SEC. 1232.  Any person interested in the administration, may appear and contest any of the claims, and shall be entitled to process to compel the attendance of witnesses, as in ordinary suits in the District Courts.

SEC. 1233.  Although a claim be properly authenticated and allowed, if the Court be not well satisfied that it is just, it shall send for persons and papers, and may examine the claimant and the executor or administrator under oath.  The same examination may be made where the claim has not been allowed.  If the Court be not entirely convinced, in such case, by evidence other than the testimony of the claimant, that the claim is just, it shall be disapproved.

SEC. 1234.  The order of approval or disapproval of a claim, has the force and effect of a judgment.

SEC. 1235.  A claim is said to be legally exhibited, 
1.	When it is properly presented to the executor or administrator, and after being allowed by him is filed; or,
2.	After being rejected by him is filed, and the executor or administrator cited to answer it; or,
3.	Without being presented to the administrator, is duly authenticated and filed, and the executor or administrator cited to answer it.  Provided, in any case, that if a claim be disapproved, an appeal has been taken or certiorari obtained.

SEC. 1236.  A claim is said to be established, when it has been allowed by the executor or administrator, and approved by the Court; or when it has been approved by the Court, after citation to the executor or administrator to appear and answer it; or when, on appeal or certiorari by the claimant, it has been sustained by the District Court; or when, on appeal or certiorari by any person interested in the administration, it has been sustained by the District Court, or the appeal or certiorari has been dismissed.

SEC. 1237.  It is the duty of the executor or administrator to report to the Court a list of all judgment and special liens, whether presented to him for allowance or not; and in like manner, all suits for money pending against the deceased at the time of his death.

SEC. 1238.  The executor or administrator, or any person interested in the administration, or the Court of Re OW motion, may cause any person who claims a judgment or recorded special lien against the estate, to be cited to appear and establish the same.  And on return of such citation duly served, such claim shall be supported by affidavit and approved or disapproved, according to the evidence, like other claims.

SEC. 1239.  Any such claimant, who, when cited to appear and establish his claim, fails to do so, shall be deemed to admit that the same is not just, or that it has been paid, and shall be forever barred from prosecuting the same; and judgment shall be entered to that effect.  The clamint retains, however, his right to appeal or obtain a writ of certiorari.

SEC. 1240.  Claims which have not been legally exhibited within the year, may be exhibited at any time afterwards, before the estate is closed, or suit on such claims would be barred by the general law of limitations.

SEC. 1241.  The general law of limitations is interrupted.
1.	By filing a claim which has been allowed.
2.	By filing a claim, and causing a citation to be issued to the executor or administrator.

SEC. 1242.  Where a claim is lost or cannot be produced, the claimant may make an affidavit of the facts and present it to the administrator, or cause it to be be filed, with the same effect as the claim itself; but, in such case, the claim must be proved by disinterested testimony produced in Court or taken by deposition, before it shall be approved.

SEC. 1243.  Where, by reason of a claim being a claim against another person, or other like sufficient cause, it is inconvenient for a claimant to permit the same to remain on file, the Court may, after such claim shall have been approved, order a copy thereof to be retained and the original to be delivered to the claimant or his attorney.

SEC. 1244.  If any person shall bring a suit for money against an executor or administrator, in the District Court, in any case not provided for by Article 17, he shall pay all the costs of the suit.

SEC. 1245.  A docket shall be kept which shall be known as the Claim Docket.  It shall be ruled at proper intervals from top to bottom, with a short note of the contents at the top of each column.  One or more pages shall be assigned to each estate, in proportion to the probable number of claims which will be exhibited against it.  In the marginal column shall be entered the names of the claimants, in the order in which their claims are filed, and when they are filed.  The second column shall contain the amount of the claim; the third, the date form which it bears interest; the fourth, the rate of interest; the fifth, whether allowed or rejected, in whole or in part, by the executor or administrator; the sixth, date of filing; seventh, whether approved or disapproved, in whole or in part; eighth, the class to which the claim belongs; ninth, appeal, and by whom, with date; tenth, certiorari, by whom obtained, and date; eleventh, established in the District Court.  When the entry is of any act in Court, the docket and page shall be stated.  An index shall be kept showing the names of the decease persons, and the page on which the abstract of claims against them will be found.

SECTION 2  Of the classification of Claims and the order in which they shall be paid.

SEC. 1246.  The claims against an estate shall be classed and have priority of payment as follows, except as provided in Article 1248.  
1.	Funeral expenses.
2.	Expenses of last sickness, including medicines.
3.	Special liens, according to their priority, so far as the same can be paid out of the specific property to which the lien attached.
4.	Wages of white servants not earned during lasts ickness.
5.	Medical attendance during last sickness.
6.	Judgments rendered against the deceased in his lifetime, which are liens on the real property of the estate, according to their priority, so far as the same can be paid out of the proceeds of the sales of such real property.
7.	All claims legally exhibited within one year.
8.	All claims and parts of claims not paid under some one of the preceding subdivisions of this Article.
Where there is a deficiency of assests to pay all claims of the same degree, they shall be paid pro rata.

SEC. 1247.  The expenses of administration are:
1.	The costs of Court.
2.	Reasonable expenses incurred by the executor or administrator in the collection, preservation and management of the estate, including reasonable attorney’s fees, where the executor or administrator is not a practicing attorney, and the service was necessary and actually rendered.
3.	Commissions to the executor or administrator, at the rate of five per cent on all sums actually received by him in cash, and five per cent on all sums actually received by him in cash, and five per cent on all sums paid to creditors, and legatees or to the State Treasurer; but not on the remainder of the estate, delivered up to the persons entitled to receive the same, unless a sale become necessary in order to make distribution.

SEC. 1248.  The expenses or administration, have priority of all charges except funeral expenses, subject however, to this explanation, that the expenses of administration as to a particular class of charges and the property to be applied to the payment thereof, have priority over that and subsequent classes, but are postponed to prior classes.

SEC. 1249.  The attorney fees which are allowable as part of the expenses of administration, are those only which were for services in a controversy or controversies between the estate and other persons, and do not include fees for advice or assistance in administering the estate, where there is no such controversy.  There may be a controversy without a suit.

SEC. 1250.  Where the judgment of the Court is appealed from, or taken to the District Court within the year by certiorari, by the claimant, if the claim be established in that Court, it retains its proper class, and on receipt of a certified copy of the judgment, the same shall be entered of record and observed accordingly.

SEC. 1251.  Where the judgment of the Court is appealed from or a certiorari is taken to the District Court, at any time before a claim is paid, by the executor or administrator, or any one interested in the administration, the payment shall not be made until a certified copy of the judgment of the District Court, establishing the same, or dismissing the appeal or certiorari, shall have been received and entered of record; but the claim if finally established retains its proper class.

SEC. 1252.  All suits pending against any person at the time of his death, which, by law, survive against his executor or administrator, shall be considered claims legally exhibited against such estate, from the time such suit shall be revived; and shall be classed accordingly.

SEC. 1253.  The allowance and filing of a claim without the affidavit prescribed in Article 1216 or 1217, if done in good faith, has the effect to prevent the claim from being postponed under Article 2246, or barred by the general law of limitations.

SEC. 1254. All claims except legacies, and claims acknowledged by will or included in subdivisions one and three of Article 1247, must be legally exhibited against the estate; and are classed accordingly, subject to Articles 1252 and 1256.

SEC. 1255.  A claim which in its nature belongs to the first, second, fourth or fifth class, becomes postponed, if it be not legally exhibited within the year.

SEC. 1256.  Claims which belong to the sixth class, and recorded liens and liens preserved by possession, which belong to the third class, retain their priority as to the property to which they attach, although they be not legally exhibited within the year.

SEC. 1257.  But, as to all property, the claims mentioned in the preceding Article stand upon the same footing as claims in the seventh and eighth classes.

SEC. 1258.  It is the duty of the Court, when there are any funds which should properly be applied to claims mentioned in Article 1256, which have not been legally exhibited, to cite the claimants to appear and establish or abandon them.

SECTION 3 Of the payment of claims against estates.

SEC. 1259.  The executor or administrator shall pay the claims mentioned in subdivisions one, two, four and five, of Article 1246, according to their priority, whenever he has funds of the estate; and if he fail to do so, the creditor, after notice to the executor or administrator, shall be entitled to an order for such payment.

SEC. 1260.  It shall be the duty of the executor or administrator, at the first term of the Court after the expiration of one year from the original grant of letters of administration, to return an account showing – 
1.	Any property that may have come to his knowledge or possession by discovery, increase or otherwise, belonging to the estate, which has not been previously inventoried.
2.	Any changes in the property of the estate, by sale destruction or otherwise, which have not been previously reported.
3.	Any judgments which are a lien on the real property of the estate, which have not been legally exhibited.
4.	Any recorded specific liens, which have not been legally exhibited.
5.	Any suits for money in the District Court, pending at the decease of the testator or intestate, and not yet decided; and whether revived, or not; and if revived, the date thereof.
6.	All claims and parts of claims against the estate, paid by him.
7.	All claims and parts of claims due the estate, which have been collected, and the condition and prospects of those remaining uncollected.
8.	The amount of money in his hands, belonging to the estate.
	Annexed to said account shall be the affidavit of the executor or administrator, that it is a complete and correct account of the matters to which it relates.

SEC. 1262.  As soon as said account is confirmed, it shall be the duty of the Court, to examine into the condition of the estate and ascertain – 
1.	Whether there are funds enough in the hands of the executor or administrator to pay all claims which have been legally exhibited.
2.	If not, how many of the classes there are funds enough to pay in full, and the excess, if any, to be applied to the payment of the next class.

SEC. 1263.  If the enquiry be found in the affirmative, an order shall be made that the executor or administrator immediately pay all claims which have been established.

SEC. 1264.  If such enquiry be found in the negative, an order shall be made for the immediate payment of certain claims to be specified, which shall include all of each class which is to be paid in full; and, if there will be any surplus after such payment, the order shall fix the per centage which each claim of the next class is entitled to at that time, and shall order the same to be paid immediately.  In making the order required by this Article, regard shall be had to the fact, that the third and sixth classes have priority over the seventh and eighth as to the proceeds of the particular property only; and the amount apportioned for claims which remain on file undecided, or on appeal or certiorari, shall be reserved until such claims are decided.

SEC. 1265.  Proceedings similar to those prescribed by the three preceding Articles shall be had at any subsequent term of the Court, when there are any funds in the hands of the executor or administrator, and any established claims unpaid.

SEC. 1266.  No claim against an estate shall be paid until it shall have been established in the manner provided by the first Section of this Chapter.

SEC. 1267.  If any executor or administrator shall fail to pay any claim ordered to be paid, when demanded, upon affidavit of the demand and failure to pay being filed, an execution shall be issued for the amount ordered to be paid to such claimant, and costs, against property of such executor or administrator.

SEC. 1268.  If the execution be returned not satisfied, the claimant may cause a citation to be issued to the sureties of the executor or administrator, referring to the official bond, and the order for payment, the execution and return thereon, requiring the sureties to appear and show cause why judgment should not be rendered against them for the amount of such claim, ordered to be paid as aforesaid.

SEC. 1269.  Such citation may be issued to any country in the State; and upon the return thereof, duly served, if good cause to the contrary be not shown, the Court shall render judgment against the sureties for, the amount of the claim ordered to be paid as aforesaid and remaining unpaid, and ten per cent damages thereon, together with interest and costs; and issue execution thereon.

SEC. 1270.  At any time after the first term after the year, any person interested in the administration may cause the executor or administrator to be cited to return additional accounts similar to the one mentioned in Article 1261; but if it do not appear that there was good cause therefor, such person shall pay the costs.

SEC. 1271.  Where an estate is clearly solvent, the Court may make an order that the executor or administrator may assign the claims belonging to the estate, to persons holding established claims against it, in discharge of such amount of their claims, as will equal the amount of the claims assigned.

Chapter XII. Of claims against estates other than for money, and of other controversies.

SEC. 1272.  When the deceased shall have entered into any contract for the conveyance of real property or slaves, which was not executed during his lifetime, and shall not have given power by will to carry the same into execution, or such power has been annulled under Article 1180, the party wishing a specific performance must bring his suit in the District Court, and make the heirs and executor or administrator parties thereto.

SEC. 1273.  If any person desire to contest the title of the estate to land or slaves, he must bring his suit in the District Court, and make the executor, or administrator and the heirs parties thereto.

SEC. 1274.  If any person desire to obtain the possession, merely, of real property or slaves, or to recover other personal property, it is sufficient to make the executor or administrator a party.  But the title to land or slaves cannot be affected by a recovery in such suit.

SEC. 1275.  If the executor or administrator desire to recover possession merely, of real property or slaves belonging to the estate, or to recover personal property other than slaves, he must bring suit in the District Court, but need not make the heirs parties.  The defendants in such suit may cause the heirs to be made parties, upon a showing under oath that they have a real and not merely a pretended claim to the property.

SEC. 1276.  The county Court has the power, by summary process, to put the executor or administrator in the possession of all property, both real and personal, which was in the possession of the deceased at the time of his death.

SEC. 1277.  If the executor or administrator deems it important for the benefit of the estate, not merely to obtain the possession of real property or slaves, but to settle the title thereto, he must bring suit in the District Court, and make the adverse claimants and the heirs defendants.

Chapter XIII.  Sales of real property and slaves for the payment of debts or legacies.

SEC. 1278.  Whenever it shall appear that the personal property or proceeds of previous sales, are insufficient to pay the claims of creditors and legatees, and expenses of administration, an order shall be made, on the application of the executor or administrator, or of any person interested in the administration, for the sale of enough real property or slaves, to supply the probable decfiency.

SEC. 1279.  Such sale shall be ordered to be made of the property which may be deemed most advantageous to the estate to be sold; provided, however, that slaves shall not be sold until all other property has been exhausted, unless it be manifest that the estate is insolvent, or it be necessary to sell one or more of them in satisfaction of a special lien.

SEC. 1280.  On application of the distributees, not including legatees or devisees, the real property or part thereof may be reserved until the slaves or part thereof, not specially bequeathed, shall have been sold for the payment of debts.

SEC. 1281.  No order for the sale of real property or slaves, for the payment of debts, shall be made, unless notice of the application therefor shall have been published at least once a week for four weeks successively, or if there be no newspaper regularly printed in the county, by citation duly posted, to all persons interested in the administration, to show cause why such sale should not be made.

SEC. 1282.  It is the duty of the executor or administrator to apply for such order, whenever it appears that the proceeds of the personal property and previous sales of real property, or slaves, will be insufficient to pay the debts and legacies and expenses of administration.

SEC. 1283.  Any person holding a claim against the estate, secured by mortgage or other special lien, may obtain an order for the sale of the property upon which he has such mortgage or other special lien, or so much thereof as may be required to satisfy the claim, by causing citation to be posted, and the executor or administrator to be cited to appear at the next term of the Court and show cause why such order should not be made.

SEC. 1284.  If it should appear to the Court that the discharge of such special lien, out of the general assets, would be beneficial to the estate, the payment may be ordered to be so made, instead of ordering a sale of the property.

SEC. 1285.  Before any order for the sale of real property shall be entered, the executor or administrator shall be required to give a bond, with one or more sufficient sureties, payable to, and approved by the Chief Justice, in double the appraised value of the property, to the effect that he will faithfully discharge his duties as executor or administrator in making the sale, and collecting the purchase money, and that he will pay the same, when collected, according to the order of the Court.

SEC. 1286.  All sales of real property or slaves, for the payment of debts, shall be made on a credit of six months, except where such sales are ordered for the satisfaction of a mortgage or other lien on the very property: in which case, such sales shall be made on such terms as the Court may direct, which shall be stated in the order of sale.

SEC. 1287.  All sales of real property or slaves shall be made in the county where the administration is pending, unless the real property is situated, or the slaves were left by the deceased and are staying, in another county; in which case, the Court may order the sale to take place in such county.  And in all such cases, the sale shall be advertised in both counties.

SEC. 1288.  The order of sale shall require the sales to be made at the next regular sale day, allowing time for the advertisement.

SEC. 1289.  The advertisement of the time and place of the sale of real property or slaves shall be sufficient, if it state,
1.	The time of the sale.
2.	The place of the sale.
3.	If it be real property, it shall be do described as to distinguish it from like property.
4.	If the property be slaves, a general description of their number, ages, and sex shall be given.
5.	The estate to which the property belongs.
6.	That the same is sold under an order of the Court, at what term made, for the payment of debts.
7.	It shall be signed by the executor or administrator officially.

SEC. 1290.  The provisions of Chapter four, Title thirteen, of the Second Part of this Code, commencing at Article 675, so far as the same relate to the advertisement and sale of real property and slaves and the proceedings incidental thereto, and are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Chapter, shall apply to the sale of such property by an executor or administrator, under an order of sale for the payment of debts, - the executor or administrator being substituted for the Sheriff, the estate for the debtor, and persons interested in the administration only for the creditor.

SEC. 1291.  When an executor or administrator makes a sale of real property or slaves, for the payment of debts, he shall keep and return an account thereof, as provided in Article 1188 for the sale of personal property.

SEC. 1292.  At the first term of the Court, when such account of sale shall have been returned, the Court shall inquire into the manner in which such sale was made; and if it appear to have been fairly made, and in conformity to law, the Court shall make an order confirming it, and directing conveyances to be made to the purchasers upon their compliance with the terms of the sale; if it does not appear to have been so made, an order shall be entered, setting it aside, and ordering a new sale, unless good cause shall have been shown in the mean time why such sale should not be made.

SEC. 1293.  The terms of sale of real estate and slaves in all cases,  shall be that the purchaser give his note with good personal security, payable in the county, and secured by mortgage on the property purchased.

SEC. 1294.  The conveyance from the executor or administrator to the purchaser, upon compliance with the terms of sale, shall recite the decree of confirmation; and the provisions contained in Chapter four, Title thirteen, of the Second Part of this Code, relating to Sheriff’s deeds shall apply to conveyances made by executors and administrators, with this additional provision in favor of the latter, that the recitation of the order of confirmation shall be prima facie evidence that there was an order of sale, and that all the provisions of the law were complied with in making an executing such order.

SEC. 1295.  If, from any cause, the executor or administrator should fail to sell any real property or slaves, ordered to be sold, at the time specified in the order, he shall report the facts to the Court, accompanied by his affidavit of the truth thereof; and the Court may appoint another day for such sale; and so on, from time to time, until the property is disposed of.

Chapter XIV.  Of the accounts of the executor or administrator.

SEC. 1296.  Every account presented to the Court, by the executor or administrator, shall, without being acted on; be continued until the next term of such Court.

SEC. 1297.  Notice of the filing of such account shall be given by citation to all persons interested in the administration, duly posted, and published at least once a week for three successive weeks, in a newspaper printed in the county, if one be regularly printed therein; if it purport to be a final account, the citation shall so state.

SEC. 1298.  The account, with any objections made thereto, may be referred to an auditor, to be examined and re stated, in the manner provided in Articles 414 and 415.

SEC. 1299.  The executor or administrator must produce and file the proper voucher for every item of credit claimed by him in his account.

SEC. 1300.  If the account be found incorrect, it shall be correctly stated, and when so corrected, or if found correct, it shall be confirmed and entered of record.

SEC. 1301.  A docket shall be kept, in which shall be entered a list of all executors and administrators; the date of granting letters to each; the times at which each is required to return accounts; and whether or not such returns have been made.

SEC. 1302.  There shall be put up in some conspicuous place in the office, twenty days before each term of the Court, a list of all executors and administrators who are required to return accounts at the next term of the Court.

SEC. 1303.  If any executor or administrator fail to return accounts at the times prescribed by this Act, he shall be cited to return the same at the next term of the Court, and show cause for not having made the return according to law.

SEC. 1304.  If the executor or administrator fail to return such account after being cited, he shall be fined in any sum not exceeding five hundred dollars, for the use of the county; and he and his sureties shall be liable for all fines imposed and damages sustained by reason of such failure.

SEC. 1305.  In the settlement of the account of the executor or administrator, all debts due the estate which the Court is satisfied could not have been collected by due diligence, and which have not been collected, shall be excluded from the computation.

Chapter XV.  Of the death, resignation and removal of executors and administrators.

SECTION 1 Of the death of executors and administrators.

SEC. 1306.  Where all the executors or administrators die, the Court, on application, shall appoint another administrator..

SECTION 2 Of the resignation of executors and administrators.

SEC. 1307.  When an executor or administrator wishes to resign, he shall present to the Court a full and complete account of the condition of the estate, and of his administration, as provided in Article 1260, verified by his affidavit.

SEC. 1308.  When such application is made, a citation shall be issued as follows:
1.	It shall run in the name of “The State of Texas.”
2.	It shall be addressed to all persons interested in the administration of the estate of _________ deceased.
3.	It shall state that __________, executor (or administrator) of said estate, has filed an exhibit of the condition of the estate, an account of his administration and an application for leave to resign.
4.	It shall notify the persons to whom it is addressed, to appear at a certain term of the Court, commencing on such a day and month, and contest the account if they see proper to do so.
5.	It shall be dated and attested by the Chief Justice, with the seal of the Court attached.

SEC. 1309.  Such citation shall be published at least once a week for three successive weeks in some newspaper of the county, if there be one regularly printed therein; if not, then by posting copies thereof, twenty days before the term, at three of the most public places in the county, no two of which shall be within the same town or city.

SEC. 1310.  If it appear at the trial, that such executor or administrator has accounted for all of the estate, according to law, the court shall make an order that he deliver the estate, if there be any remaining in his possession, to his co-executor or co-administrator, or if there be none, to some person who shall have been appointed in his place, and given bond and taken the oath of administrator

SEC. 1311.  Upon compliance with such order and surrender of his letters testamentary or of administration, the executor or administrator shall be permitted to resign his trust and be discharged.

SECTION 3.  Of the removal of executors and administrators.

SEC. 1312.   Executors and administrators shall be removed in the following cases, without notice, at a regular of the Court:
1.	When they neglect to return, within thirty days after qualification, an inventory of the estate, so far as the same has come to their knowledge.
2.	When they have been required to give a new bond, and neglect to do so within the time prescribed.
3.	When they have removed from the State.

SEC. 1313.  An executor or administrator may be removed by the Chief Justice, of his own motion, or on the motion of any person interested in the administration, after being cited to answer,
1.	When he fails to return any account which he is required to return by the provisions of Articles 1260, 1335, 1340 and 1341.
2.	When he fails to obey any order of the Court or Chief Justice, consistent with this Act.
3.	When there is good cause to believe that he has misapplied, embezzled or removed, or is about to misapply, embezzle or remove from the State, the property committed to his charge, or any part thereof.
4.	When he is proved to have been guilty of gross neglect or mismanagement, in the performance of any of his duties.
5.	Where he is proved to be disqualified under Article 1073.

SEC. 1314.  When an executor or administrator is removed, the order shall require the estate to be delivered up to some person who has been appointed in his stead, and who shall have previously given bond and taken the oath.

SEC. 1315.  The order of removal shall state the cause therefor, and shall require the executor or administrator to surrender his letters testamentary or of administration.

SEC. 1316.  When any person shall have been removed from the administration of an estate, he shall not be afterwards re-appointed.

SECTION 4.  General provisions respecting the death, resignation and removal of executors and administrators.

SEC. 1317.  If any executor or administrator die, or resign, or his letters be revoked, he or his legal representatives shall account for, pay and deliver to his successor, or the surviving or remaining executor or administrator, all property of every kind belonging to the estate of the deceased; at such time and in such manner as the Court shall order and in case of a refusal to comply with the order of the Court to that effect, the same may be enforced by attachment as for contempt.

SEC. 1318.  Where an executor or administrator succeeds a former executor or administrator, he shall be required to account for all the estate which came into the hands of his predecessor; and shall be entitled to any order or remedy which the Court has power to give, in order to enforce the delivery of the estate, and the liability of the sureties of his predecessor for so much as is not delivered.  But he shall be excused if it appear that he has used due diligence and failed in whole or in part.

SEC. 1319.  Where a subsequent executor or administrator proceeds against a former one and his sureties for neglect, he shall be entitled to recover the real damage only caused by such neglect.

SEC. 1320.  If there be more than one executor or administrator, and letters of one or more of them be revoked, or surrendered, or part die, those who remain shall discharge all the duties required by law touching such estate, including the recovery from such other executor or administrator and his sureties, or their representatives, of the part of the estate in his hands, or for which he is accountable.

Chapter XVI.  Of the distribution of estates.

SEC. 1321.  The executor or administrator shall  not be compelled to pay legacies, or make distribution or the estate, until one year after the original grant of letters testamentary, or of administration, unless the legacies be specific and of a perishable nature, or would be subject to injury if retained one year.

SEC. 1322.  At the second term after the expiration of one year from the original grant of letters testamentary or of administration, the estate is ready for distribution or delivery to the person or persons entitled to receive it.

SEC. 1323.  Each person entitled to a distributive share of an estate, and not applying for distribution, shall be cited before distribution shall be ordered.

SEC. 1324.  The estate may be delivered to those who are entitled to receive it, provided all be represented, without distribution, or it may be distributed, at their election, as to part, or all.

SEC. 1325.  I distribution be demanded, the same shall be made in the manner provided for partition in the ninth Chapter of this Title, unless the estate consists entirely of money and rights of action; in which case the distribution shall be made by the Court.

SEC. 1326.  Where distribution is to be made, the Court shall settle the shares of the distributees, by an order duly entered to that effect.

SEC. 1327.  Only one set of Commissioners shall be appointed, who shall be householders in the county where the administration is pending; but if any part of the estate lie in a distant county, and cannot be fairly distributed, without a view thereof, and it be inconvenient for the Commissioners to go and examine it, they may report the facts; whereupon the Court may order a sale thereof, unless good cause be shown to the contrary, or Commissioners may be appointed in the county where the real property is situated, to appraise the same, for the purpose of distribution.

SEC. 1328.  Where a sale of real property becomes necessary, in order to make distribution, before the order for such sale shall be entered, the executor or administrator shall be required to give bond with one or more sufficient sureties, payable to and approved by the Chief Justice, in double the estimated value of the property, to the effect that he will faithfully discharge his duties as executor or administrator in making the sale, and pay the proceeds thereof, according to the order of the Court.

SEC. 1329.  Such sale shall be advertised, and made, returned and confirmed in all respects the same, and with like effects as sales of real property or slaves, for the payment of debts, except that the advertisement shall state that it is made under an order of Court, for distribution, and when such order was made.

SEC. 1330.  If a distrubutee become the purchaser of any property at such sale, his receipt for the amount of his share shall be received in payment of an equal amount of the purchase money.

SEC. 1331.  At any time, and from time to time, after the second term after the year, if the administration shall not have been closed, the executor or administrator, on the application of any person interested in the administration, may be cited to return an account similar to the one mentioned in Article 1260.

SEC. 1332.  In making distribution, a sufficient amount of the assets shall be reserved in the hands of the administrator, to pay all claims which shall have been legally exhibited and established, or which have been legally exhibited and may yet be established.

SEC. 1333.  After an order for distribution shall have been made, the remedy of all claimants whose claims have not been legally exhibited, is against the distributees, in the District Court, in proportion to the amount each received; but the distributees shall not be bound beyond the amount or value of the property received by them.

SEC. 1334.  The payment of legacies or distributive shares may be compelled by attachment or execution; and in case of a return of execution unsatisfied, the distributee or legatee shall have the same remedy and same damages as are provided by Articles 1267, 1268, and 1269, for claimants.

Chapter XVII. Of the payment of the residue into the treasury of the state.

SEC. 1335.  If no person entitled to receive the residue of the estate, makes application to have the same delivered up or distributed before the expiration of two years from the original grant of letters testamentary or of administration, it shall be the duty of the executor or administrator, at the first term thereafter, to return an account of the condition of the estate, similar to that mentioned in Article 1260.

SEC. 1336.  On the confirmation of such account, the Court shall require the executor or administrator to give a bond in double the amount of the estimated value of the real property of the estate, with one ore more sureties, payable to and approved by the Chief Justice, to the effect that he will faithfully discharge his duties as executor or administrator in executing any order for the sale of real property of the estate, which the Court may make, and collect and pay over the proceeds according to the order of the Court.

SEC. 1337.  As soon as said bond shall have been approved, the Court shall make an order for the sale of all the slaves and real property belonging to the estate, on a credit of twelve months.

SEC. 1338.  Such sale shall be advertised, made, returned, confirmed and completed, the same in all respects as the sale of similar property for the payment of debts, except as to the term of credit.  The terms of sale shall be the same mentioned in Article 1293.

SEC. 1339.  At the same term, it shall also be the duty of the Court, if no persons entitled as distributees shall have appeared to claim the estate, to order the executor or administrator to retain a certain amount of the cash assets, to pay any claims which have been legally exhibited and established and remain unpaid, or may yet be established, and pay the balance into the Treasury of the State.

SEC. 1340.  At or after the expiration of three years from the original grant of letters testamentary or of administration if the persons entitled as distributees shall not have appeared to claim the estate, the executor or administrator shall again return an account similar to the one mentioned in Article 1260; and shall be again ordered to retain a certain amount of the cash assets, to pay any claims which have been legally exhibited and established, and remain unpaid, or may yet be established, and pay the balance into the State Treasury.

SEC. 1341.  At intervals of six months thereafter, it shall be the duty of the executor or administrator to return similar accounts,  and of the Court to repeat the order mentioned in the preceding Article, until the residue shall have been paid into the Treasury of the State.

SEC. 1342.  The same process shall be pursued to cause the share of any distributee who is not represented when the estate is distributed, to be paid into the Treasury of the State, if he fail to appear and claim the same within one year after the order of distribution.

SEC. 1343.  An order which requires money to be paid into the Treasury of the State, shall state the amount thereof.

SEC. 1344.  When the executor or administrator shall pay any money into the Treasury of the State, he shall take from the Treasurer a receipt for such payment, with his official seal attached, and file the same; such receipt shall be recorded.

SEC. 1345.  Where a person entitled, as distributee, shall appear after the estate has been paid into the State Treasury the same proceedings shall be had to determine the right as if he had appeared before; and the order of the Court establishlng the right of a distributee thus appearing, and the share to which he is entitled, after the lapse of twenty days without appeal, shall be sufficient authority for the State Treasurer to pay over the amount.

SEC. 1346.  Where the right and share of an absent distributee are fixed by an order of distribution, it is only necessary to establish the identity of the claimant, which shall be done in the mode prescribed in the preceding Article.

SEC. 1347.  The District Attorney may at any time cause the executor or administrator and his sureties to appear and show cause why judgment should not be rendered against them for the amount of the estate appearing to be in the hands of the executor or administrator unadministered; and judgment shall be rendered for any amount which the executor or administrator may have failed to pay into the Treasury of the State, as ordered by the Court.  And this proceeding may be repeated until the whole property shall have been paid over.

Chapter XVIII.  Of the closing of the administration.

SEC. 1348.  When the executor or administrator shall file proper vouchers showing that he has disposed of any portion of the estate under the provisions  of this Act, the Chief Justice during term or in vacation, shall cause the same to be filed, and a descriptive entry thereof to be made on the record; and whenever he shall have so filed proper vouchers, showing that all of the estate has been disposed of by him, under the provisions of this Act, he shall be finally discharged from his trust by the Court.

SEC. 1349.  When the executor or administrator applies to be discharged, notice of such application shall be given in the manner provided in Article __________.

SEC. 1350.  When the executor or administrator, having filed proper vouchers showing that all the estate has been disposed of by him under the provisions of this Act, is discharged, the order shall state the administration is closed.

Repealing Clause.

SEC. 1351.  The Act of March 20, 1848, to regulate proceedings in the County Courts, pertaining to the estates of deceased persons is repealed, subject to the provisions of the succeeding Article.

SEC. 1352.  All proceedings in relation to the settlement, partition and distribution of estates of deceased persons, that now remain unsettled in the County Courts, where the administration has been commenced, shall proceed and be concluded under the provisions of the laws heretofore in force, as if this Act had not been passed; except as to Articles 1345 and 1346, which shall apply to all money, heretofore paid into the Treasury of the State, under previous laws for the settlement of estates of deceased persons.

Title III.  Of the guardianship of the persons and estates of minors, persons or unsound mind, and habitual drunkards.

Chapter I. Preliminary provisions.

SEC. 1353.  Male persons under twenty-one years of age, and females under twenty-one years of age and unmarried, are minors; they are sometimes called infants.

SEC. 1354.  Persons of unsound mind and habitual drunkards are defined by Articles 31 and 32.
SEC. 1355.  The law supposes that minors, persons of unsound mind and habitual drunkards have not capacity to take care of their persons or estates.  It therefore provides that there shall be certain persons whose duty it shall be to take care of them.

SEC. 1356.  The parents, or the survivor of them, except in certain cases, have a natural right and duty to take care of the persons of their minor children, and the law makes not further provision for such cases.

SEC. 1357.  A minor whose parents are both dead, is called an orphan.

SEC. 1358.  The mode which the law provides for taking care of the persons and estates of minors, persons or unsound mind and habitual drunkards, is by the aid of a guardian, appointed by the county Court.

SEC. 1359.  The minor is called a ward of the guardian; and the latter is said to have the guardianship of the ward, or of his person, or of his estate, as the case may be.

SEC. 1360.  Incidental to the right and duty of the parent or guardian to take care of the person of a minor, is the duty to see that he is educated in a manner suitable to his condition, and if necessary for his support, that he learn a trade or adopt some useful profession.

Chapter II. Of the guardianship of the persons and estates of minors

SECTION 1 Of the parties to a proceeding for the appointment of a Guardian for a minor.

SEC. 1361.  Where the parents live together, the father is the natural guardian of the persons of the minor children by the marriage, and entitled to be appointed guardian of their estates.

SEC. 1362.  Where the parents do not live together, their rights are equal; and the guardianship of their minor child shall be assigned to one or the other, according to the circumstances of each case, taking into consideration the interest of the child alone.

SEC. 1363.  Where one of the parents is dead, the survivor is the natural guardian of the persons of the minor children, and entitled to be appointed guardian of their estates.

SEC. 1364.  When the surviving father or mother dies he or she may appoint, by will or by oral declaration, any person not disqualified, to be the guardian of the person of his minor child or children; and such person shall be entitled to be appointed guardian of their estates.

SEC. 1365.  Where the minor in an orphan, and no one has been appointed by the surviving parent to be the guardian; the nearest ascendant in he direct line, if not disqualified, is entitled to the guardianship of the person of the orphan, and to be appointed guardian of his estate.

SEC. 1366.  Where there is more than one ascendant in the same degree, in the direct line, they are equally entitled, and the guardianship shall be given to the one of the other, according to circumstances, taking into consideration the interest of the orphan alone.

SEC. 1367.  In case the orphan has no ascendant in the direct line, the guardianship shall be given to the nearest of kin in the collateral line, who comes immediately after the presumptive heir or heirs of the orphan; and if there be two or more in the same degree, the guardianship shall be given to one or the other, according to circumstances, taking into consideration the interest of the orphan alone.

SEC. 1368.  When an orphan arrives at the age of fourteen years, he becomes entitled to choose his own guardian, to be approved by the Court, except where a guardian has been appointed by the lawful will of the parent.

SEC. 1369.  The following persons cannot be appointed guardians:
1.	Minors, except the father and mother.
2.	Persons whose conduct is notoriously bad.
3.	Persons of unsound mind.
4.	Habitual drunkards.
5.	Those who are themselves, or whose father or mother, are parties to a law suit, on the result of which the condition of the minor or part of his fortune may depend.
6.	Those who are debtors to the minor, unless they discharge the debt prior to the appointment.
	The sixth subdivision does not apply to the father or mother.

SEC. 1370.  All persons are parties to a proceeding for the appointment of a guardian for a minor.

SEC. 1371.  It follows from the preceding Article, that any person has a right to appear and contest the appointment of a particular person, or to contest any proceeding which he deems to be injurious to the ward, or to commence any proceeding which he considers beneficial to him, being liable for the costs occasioned by him, in case of his failure.

SECTION 2 OF the place of commencing a proceeding for the appointment of a guardian for a minor.

SEC. 1372.  A proceeding for the appointment of a guardian of the estate of a minor, shall be commenced in the county where the parents reside.

SEC. 1373.  If the parents do not reside in the same county, it shall be commenced in the county where the parent who has the custody of the child, resides.

SEC. 1374.  A proceeding for the appointment of a guardian of the person and estate of an orphan, or of either, shall be commenced in the county where the surviving parent resided at the time of his death, or where the orphan is found, or where his principal estate may be.

SECTION 3 of the appointment of a guardian for a minor.

SEC. 1375.  A proceeding for the appointment of a guardian is commenced by oral application.

SEC. 1376.  Such application may be made by any person who is interested in the welfare of the minor.

SEC. 1377.  At the first term after notice shall have been given by citation duly posted to all persons interested in the welfare of such minor, the application is ready for trial.

SEC. 1378.  If application be not made by any person entitled to claim the guardianship, a proper person who is not so entitled, may be appointed.

SEC. 1379.  Before the appointment of a guardian of either the person or estate of a minor over fourteen years of age, he shall be cited.

SEC. 1380.  When it shall come to the knowledge of any Chief Justice, that there is within his county any minor without a guardian of his person or estate, he shall cause a citation to be published to all persons interested in the welfare of such minor to show cause why a guardian for such minor should not be appointed.

SEC. 1381.  On the return of such citation duly posted, and, if the minor by fourteen years of age, of a citation duly served on him, the Court shall appoint a guardian for such minor.

SEC. 1382.  All citations which are not to be served on particular persons named, shall be for all persons interested in the welfare of the minor, naming him.

SEC. 1383.  The bond of the guardian of the person of a minor, shall be in an amount to be fixed by the Court, not to exceed one thousand dollars, to the effect that he will faithfully discharge the duties of guardian of the person of the minor.

SEC. 1384.  The bond of the guardian of the estate of a minor, shall be in an amount equal to double the estimated value of the property belonging to the estate, to the effect that he will faithfully discharge the duties of guardian of the estate of such minor according to law.

SEC. 1385.  The surviving parent may provide by will regularly probated, that a guardian appointed by the will shall not be required to give bond; and the direction shall be observed, unless it be made to appear at any time, that such guardian is mismanaging the property, or about to betray his trust.

SEC. 1386.  Where the same person is appointed guardian of the person and estate, only one bond shall be given containing the substance required in Articles 1383 and 1384.

SEC. 1387.  The guardian shall take an oath, faithfully to discharge the duties of guardian of the person, (or of the estate, or of the person and estate, as the case may be,) of the minor, according to law; which oath shall be endorsed on the bond.

SEC. 1388.  Letters of guardianship shall consist of copies of the orders corresponding to those mentioned in Articles 1122 and 1126, with the additional statement that they are given to prove the capacity of ________________ to act as the guardian of the person, (or of the estate, or of the person and estate, as the case may be,) of the said ___________.

SEC. 1389.  Only one guardian can be appointed of the person or estate of a minor; but one person may be appointed guardian of the person and another of the estate, where, the applicants are equally entitled.

SEC. 1390.  The order for the appointment of a guardian for a minor, shall specify whether it be of the person or estate, or of both person and estate.

SEC. 1391.  The guardian of a minor continue in off ice, unless sooner discharged according to law, until the minor arrives at the age of twenty-one years, or being a female, marries.

SECTION 4 Miscellaneous provisions.

SEC. 1392.  The provisions of Chapter six, Title second, of the Fifth Part of this Code, commencing at Article 1128 apply to the bond and oath of a guardian.

SEC. 1393.  The provisions of Chapter seven, Title second, of the Fifth Part of this Code, commencing at Article 1140, apply to the collection of the estate of the ward.

SEC. 1394.  The provisions of Chapter eight, Title second, of the Fifth Part of this Code, commencing at Article 1145 apply to the inventory and appraisement of the estate of a minor; except Article 1149, which is inapplicable.

SEC. 1395.  The provisions of Chapter fifteen, Title second, of the Fifth Part of this Code, commencing at Article 1306 apply to the death, resignation and removal of guardians.

SEC. 1396.  The guardian, or his heirs, executors, administrators or assigns, shall not dispute the right of the ward to any property that shall have come to his possession as guardian, except such property as shall have been recovered from the guardian, or there be a personal action pending on account of it.

SECTION 5 Where a guardian and his ward reside in another state &e

SEC. 1397.  Where a guardian and his ward are residents of any other State or Territory of the United States, or of the District of Columbia, or any other country, such guardian may file a full and complete transcript from the records of a Court of competent jurisdiction where he and his ward reside, certified as required in Article 1093, showing that he has been appointed guardian of the estate of such ward; such transcript may be recorded, and the guardian shall be entitled to receive letters of guardianship of the estate of such minor situated in this State, upon filing a bond with sureties as in other cases, in double the amount of the estimated value thereof.

SEC. 1398.  Upon recovery of the property of the ward, if it be personal property, such guardian may remove it to the place of residence of himself and ward, unless such removal would conflict with the tenure of such property or the terms and limitations under which it is held; and if it be real property or slaves he may obtain an order for the sale of it, and remove the proceeds; such sale shall be made, returned and confirmed in the same manner as other sales of real estate and slaves by guardians.

SEC. 1399.  Any resident guardian having any of the estate of such ward, may be ordered to deliver the same up to such non-resident guardian.

SEC. 1400.  There shall be no removal of any such property, until all the debts known to exist against the estate have been paid, or secured by bond payable to and approved by the Chief Justice.

SEC. 1401.  The benefit of the four preceding Articles shall not extend to the residents of any State, Territory, District or country, in which a similar law does not exist in favor of the residents of this State.

SECTION 6.  Of the power and duties of guardians of minors.

SEC. 1402.  The guardian of the person is entitled to the charge and control of the person of the ward, and the care of his support and education; and his duties correspond to his rights.

SEC. 1403.  The guardian of the estate is entitled to the possession and management of all property belonging to the ward; to collect all debts, rents or claims due him; to enforce all obligations in his favor; to bring and defend suits by or against him.  But in the management of the estate, the guardian is governed by the provisions of this Code.

SEC. 1404.  It is the duty of the guardian of the estate, to take care of and manage such estate in such manner as a prudent man would manage his own property; and he shall account for all such rents, profits and revenues as the estate would have produced by such prudent management.

SEC. 1405.  The guardian of the estate shall use due diligence to collect all claims or debts owing to the ward, and to recover possession of all property to which the ward has a title or claim; provided there is a reasonable prospect of collecting such claims or debts, or of recovering such property; and if he neglect to use such diligence, he and his sureties shall be liable for all damages occasioned by such neglect.

SEC. 1406.  The guardian of both person and estate has all the rights and duties of the guardian of the person and the guardian of the estate.

SEC. 1407.  The provisions of the third Section, Chapter Ten, Title Second of the Fifth Part of this Code, beginning at Article 1186, apply to the personal property, other than slaves, belonging to wards, and to the power and duties of the guardian of the estate respecting such property.

SEC. 1408.  The provisions of Articles 1174 and 1175 shall apply to like property belonging to a minor, and to the duties of the guardian of the estate, respecting the same.
SEC. 1409.  When the word owns improved real property, it shall be the duty of the guardian of the estate, annually to rent such property for the best price that can be obtained, taking good security for the payment of the rent, and that the tenant will  not commit nor permit any other person to commit waste on the demised premises.

SEC. 1410.  If the ward own wild or unimproved real property, the guardian may let out the same, on improvement leases, not to extend more than two years beyond the majority of the ward, taking security as provided in the preceding Article.

SEC. 1411.  If at any time the guardian shall have on hand any money belonging to the ward, beyond what may be necessary for his education and maintenance, such guardian shall, under the direction of the Court, loan the same to such person as will give security therefor, by mortgage or deed of trust on unincumbered real property in the county, for the highest rate of interest that can be obtained therefor, not exceeding twelve per cent per annum.

SEC. 1412.  If no person can be found to take the money upon interest, the guardian shall be liable for principal only.

SEC. 1413.  The guardian shall not be personally responsible for money loaned under the direction of the Court on security approved by the Court, in ease of inability of the person to whom such money may have been loaned, to pay the same, and the failure of the security; unless he has been guilty of fraud in respect to such loan.

SEC. 1414.  The guardian of the estate may receive property in payment of any debt due to the ward, in all cases where he shall be of opinion that the interest of the ward will be advanced thereby, being responsible for a prudent exercise of the discretion hereby conferred.

SECTION 7.  Of claims for money against estates of minors, and of the expenses of their education and maintenance.

SEC. 1415.  Where different persons have the guardianship of the person and estate of the ward, the guardian of the estate must pay over to the guardian of the person semi-annually, a sufficient amount of money for the education and maintenance of the ward; and on failure, shall be compelled to do so by the order of the Court, after being duly cited.

SEC. 1416.  The Court may direct a guardian to expend for the education and maintenance of his ward, a specified sum, although such sum may exceed the income of the ward’s estate; but without such direction, the guardian shall not be allowed, in any case, for the education and maintenance of the ward, more than the clear income of the estate.

SEC. 1417.  A guardian may pay any claim against the estate of his ward, which he knows to be just, without authentication thereof.

SEC. 1418.  If a claim for money against the estate of a minor be disputed by the guardian, it shall be authenticated, presented for allowance, filed and established in the same manner provided for claims against deceased persons.

SEC. 1419.  When a judgment for the recovery of money is rendered in any Court against a guardian to be satisfied out of the property of the ward, the creditor, upon application to the County Court, is entitled to an order for its payment; if there be no funds in the hands of the guardian, and to await the receipt of funds, from other sources, would involve an unreasonable delay, an order shall be issued for the sale of property sufficient to pay the debt.

SEC. 1420.  Where an order is made for the payment of money by a guardian, it shall be enforced in the same manner and with like results, as provided in Articles 1267, 1268, and 1269.

SEC. 1421.  Where there is a specific lien on any property belonging to a minor, the same proceedins shall be had as are provided in Articles 1283 and 1284.

SEC. 1422.  If any person shall sue a guardian in the District Court, on a claim for money against the estate of the ward, except in cases provided for in Article 17, he shall pay all the costs of the suit.

SEC. 1423.  Where the income of the ward’s estate and the proceeds of personal property sold, other than slaves, are insufficient for his education and maintenance, or to pay debts against his estate, the guardian of the person or estate, or any person holding a valid claim, may apply for the issuance of an order for a sale of a sufficient amount of the real estate or slaves, to make up the deficiency.

1424.  The provisions of Chapter Thirteen , Title Second, of the Fifth part of this Code, commencing at Article 1278, apply to the sale of real estate and slaves belonging to wards.

SECTION 8.  Of the removal of the guardianship of another county.

SEC. 1425.  Where any guardianship of the estate or person of a minor, shall desire to remove the transaction of the business of the guardianship from one county in this State to another, he may be permitted to do so, by an order duly entered.

SEC. 1426.  Before such order shall be entered, the sureties of such guardian shall be cited to show cause if any they have, why such removal should not be made; and the guardian shall file a certificate from the Chief Justice of the county to which the removal is proposed to be made, attested by the seal of the Court, that he has filed in such Court a certified transcript of all the proceedings in relation to the Guardianship.

SECTION 9. Of the accounts of guardians.

SEC. 1427.  The guardian of the estate of a minor shall annually return to the Court an account, showing – 
1.	Any property that may have come to his knowledge or possession, belonging to his ward, which has not been previously inventoried.
2.	Any changes in the property belonging to the estate of the ward, which have not been previously reported.
3.	A complete account of receipts and disbursements since the last account.
4.	The money on hand.
	Annexed to such account shall be the affidavit of the guardian, that it contains a complete and correct statement of the matters to which it relates.

SEC. 1428.  The guardian of the person, where there is a separate guardian of the estate, shall annually return an account, supported by his affidavit, showing the items expenditure since the last account, for the education and maintenance of the ward.

SEC. 1429.  The provisions of Chapter fourteen, Title Second, of the Fifth Part of this Code, commencing at Article 1296, apply to the accounts of guardians.

SEC. 1430.  All necessary and reasonable expenses incurred by the guardian in the preservation and management of the ward’s estate, and all necessary and reasonable expenses incurred by him in collecting claims or debts due the ward, or in recovering property to which the ward has a title or claim, shall be allowed, on proof, to be paid out of the estate.

SEC. 1431.  Attorney fees are allowed as necessary expenses, in cases like those provided for in Article 1249, and no other.

SEC. 1432.  On the application of the ward, when he shall have become of full age, or being a female, shall have married, it shall be the duty of the Court to cite the guardian to appear and make it final settlement of the guardianship.

SECTION 10.  Of special guardians.

SEC. 1433.  A special guardian is one who is appointed by a Court to take care of the interests of a minor, in a suit or special proceeding which is pending or about to be commenced, and to which such minor or person of unsound mind is a proper party.

SEC. 1434.  A special guardian is appointed by the Court, or the Judge or Justice thereof, in which the suit of special proceeding is pending or about to be commenced without notice.

SEC. 1435.  The duties and power of the special guardian are the same in such suit or special proceeding, as those of a general guardian would be.

SEC. 1436.  The special guardian gives bond and takes an oath to discharge his duties faithfully as special guardian for the minor, in the suit or special proceeding, and to pay over any money or deliver over any property which may come to his possession, according to the order of the Court.

SEC. 1437.  A special guardian is not appointed, if there be a general guardian, unless the latter is a party to the same suit or special proceeding, in his own right, or has an interest therein adverse to that of the ward.

SECTION 11.  Of the compensation of guardians.

SEC. 1438.  The guardian of the person alone is entitled to no compensation.

SEC. 1439.  The guardian of the estate is entitled to five per cent upon all sums that he actually receives or pays away in cash; and if he manages a plantation or inanufactory for his ward, the Court may allow him a reasonable compensation for such service.

Chapter III.  Of the guardianship of persons of unsound mind and habitual drunkards.

SECTION 1 Of the appointment of a guardian for a person of unsound mind or habitual drunkard.

SEC. 1440.  If information be given to the County Court, that any person in the County is of unsound mind or a habitual drunkard, without a guardian, the Court, if satisfied that there is good cause for the exercise of its jurisdiction, shall cause such person to be brought before it, and inquire into the facts by a jury, if the facts be doubtful.

SEC. 1441.  When any Sheriff, Coroner or Constable shall discover any person who resides in the County, to be of unsound mind, without a guardian, he shall give information thereof and like proceedings shall be had as directed in the preceding Article.

SEC. 1442.  If it be found by the jury that the person so brought before the Court, is of unsound mind, or incapable of managing his own affairs, the Court shall appoint a guardian of his person and estate.

SEC. 1443.  The Court may, if just cause appear, at anytime during the term at which an inquisition is had, set aside the same, and cause a new jury to be summoned to inquire into the facts; but when two juries concur in any case, the verdict shall not be aside.

SEC. 1444.  The same person shall be appointed guardian of the person and estate of a person of unsound mind or habitual drunkard.

SECTION 2 Miscellaneous provisions relating to the guardianship of persons or unsound mind and habitual drunkards.

SEC. 1445.  The guardian of a person of unsound mind or habitual drunkard shall continue in office, unless sooner discharged according to law, until the ward shall be restored to sound mind or to correct sober habits, or shall die.

SEC. 1446.  All the provisions of the second Chapter of this Title shall apply to the guardianship of persons of unsound mind and habitual drunkards.

SEC. 1447.  The provisions of Chapter eleven, Title second of the fifth Part of this Code, apply to claims for money against a person of unsound mind, or habitual drunkurd which haveccurred before the appointment of a guardian.

SEC. 1448.  The County Court by which any person of unsound mind or habitual drunkard is committed to guardianship, may make order for the support of his family and the education of his children.

SECTION 3 Where a person of unsound mind is furiously mad, &c.

SEC. 1449.  If any person shall be furiously mad, or so far disordered in his mind, as to endanger his own person, or the person or property of others, it shall be the duty of his guardian, or other person under whose care he may be, and who is bound to provide for his support, to confine him in some suitable place, until the first term of the County Court of his County, which shall make such order, for the restraint, support and safe keeping of such  person, as the circumstances shall require.

SEC. 1450.  If any such person of unsound mind, as in the last Article specified, shall not be confined by those having charge of him, or if there be no person having such charge, any Judge of the District or Supreme Court, or Chief Justice of the County, may cause such insane person to be apprehended, and may employ any person to confine him in some suitable place, until the County Court shall make further order thereon, as provided in the preceding Article.

SECTION 4 Of the expenses of maintenance and confinement.

SEC. 1451.  The father and mother of persons of unsound mind and habitual drunkards, shall maintain them at their own charge, if able to do so; and the children and grand children of such persons, shall maintain them at their own charge, if able to do so.

SEC. 1452.  The expenses attending the confinement of a insane person shall be paid by the guardian out of the estate of the ward, or by the person bound to provide for and support such insane person; or the same shall be paid out of the County Treasury.

SEC. 1453.  In all cases of appropriations out of the County Treasury, for the support or confinement, of any person of unsound mind, or habitual drunkards, the amount thereof may be recovered by the County, from any person who, by law, is bound to provide for the support of such person of unsound mind or habitual drunkard, if there be any such person able to pay the same.

SECTION 5 Restoration, reformation or death of a person of unsound mind or habitual drunkard.

SEC. 1454.  If any person shall allege under oath, that a person declared to be of unsound mind or a habitual drunkard, has been restored to his right mind, or to correct sober habits, the Court shall inquire into the fact by a jury, if the fact be doubtful.

SEC. 1455.  If it be found that such person has been restored or reformed to his right mind, he shall be discharged from guardianship, and the guardian shall immediately settle his accounts, and deliver up all the property remaining in his hands.

SEC. 1456.  In case of the death of any such ward while under guardianship, the power of the guardian shall cease, and he shall immediately settle his accounts and deliver the estate to the person or persons entitled to receive it.

Repealing Clause.

SEC. 1457. The Act of March 20th, 1848, to regulate proceedings in the County Courts, relating to guardians and wards is repealed; and all the proceedings in relation to the guardianship of minors, persons of unsound mind and habitual drunkards, shall, from this time, be carried on and completed under the provisions of this Act. This repeal shall not affect any proceeding which is already commenced, or any right which already exists.

Title IV. Of the settlement of insolvent estates.

SEC. 1458.  Any person who finds himself in failing circumstances, or who fears that his property is about to be sacrificed at forced sale, leaving his debts unpaid, may make an assignment to one or more trustees, not exceeding three, for the benefit of his creditors.

SEC. 1459.  Such assignment shall convey to the trustees, all the property of the assignor, not exempt by law from forced sale, and shall be filed recorded in the county where the debtor resides.

SEC. 1460.  Such assignment shall also contain a schedule of the property, and the affidavit of the debtor shall be annexed, stating that said schedule contains all the property owned by him, or in which he has an interest, except such as is exempt by law from forced sale.

SEC. 1461.  The trustees shall each give bond in an amount equal to double the estimated value of the property assigned, with one or more sureties, payable to an approved by the Chief Justice of the county where the debtor resides, to the effect that they will faithfully discharge their duties as trustees.

SEC. 1462.  The trustees shall also take an oath faithfully to discharge their duties, which shall be endorsed on the bond.

SEC. 1463.  The debtor may be examined on oath as to his property, on application of any creditor or of a trustee.

SEC. 1464.  Every assignment for the benefit of creditors, so far as it may attempt to prefer one creditor to another, shall be void.

SEC. 1465.  All the provisions of the second Title Par Fifth, except Chapters one, two, three, four, five, sixteen and seventeen, apply to trustees for the benefit of creditors, and to the settlement of the estates of insolvent persons.
SEC. 1466.  After an assignment for the benefit of creditors has been filed, execution shall not be issued out of any court against the property of the assignor, and if issued, shall not be executed.

Repealing Clause.

SEC. 1467.  The following Acts are repealed:
Act of January, 19th, 1841, creating a system of bankruptcy, and regulating the collection of foreign debts.
Act of ___________, 1841, for the relief of those who have taken the benefit of the insolvent laws, of other countries.
	But the repeal shall not affect any proceeding which is already commenced, or any right which already exists.

Title V. Miscellaneous provisions relating to proceedings in the county courts in matters of probate.

Chapter 1.  Of the records of the county court in matters of of probate.

SEC. 1468.  The following papers shall be copied at length in the record, or in dockets specially provided for the purpose:
1.	All notices, whether posted or published, with the return thereon.
2.	Testimony on which a will is admitted to probate.
3.	All bonds and official oaths.
4.	All inventories and appraisements.
5.	All accounts of sales.
6.	All reports, returns and accounts.
	Notices shall be copied in connection with the proceedings had upon the return thereof.
	Proper indexes shall be kept, in the names of the deceased persons, wards and insolvents, referring to every order, proceeding, and recorded paper.

SEC. 1469.  Every order made in term time, or in vacation, shall state whether any opposition was made, and by whom made, if any.

SEC. 1470.  Certified copies taken from the record, of all papers required to be recorded, shall have the same effect as copies taken directly from the originals.

Chapter II. Of the costs in county courts in matters of probate.

SEC. 1471.  The provisions of the ninth Title of the Second Part of this Code, except Article 503, shall apply to costs in the County Courts, so far as the same are not controlled by the succeeding Articles of this Chapter.

SEC. 1472.  The costs incurred in the exhibition and establishment of claims shall be taxed as follows:
1.	If a claim, which has been allowed or rejected, he disapproved, the claimant shall pay the costs, except as provided in Article 1225.
2.	If a claim which has been rejected be approved, the estate shall pay the costs.
3.	If a claim be filed without having first been legally authenticated, and allowed or rejected, the claimant shall pay the costs, whether it be approved or disapproved, except as provided in subdivision five of this Article.
4.	Where there is an appeal or certiorari, the costs shall be determined by Articles 624, 625, 626, and 627.
5.	Where a claim is filed as provided is subdivision three, and it is proved that the executor or administrator was unreasonably absent from the county or difficult to find, such executor or administrator shall pay the costs.

SEC. 1473.  In all cases where an executor or administrator, guardian or trustee, shall neglect the performance of any duty required of him, and shall be notified to appear before the Court on account thereof, he shall pay all costs of such proceeding out of his own estate.

SEC. 1474.  In all cases where a party shall make any application or opposition, and on the trial thereof he shall be defeated, he shall be liable for all costs occasioned by such application or opposition.  

SEC. 1475.  The costs of partition and of distribution must be paid by the respective parties in proportion to their interests.

SEC. 1476.  When any person shall be found to be of unsound mind, the costs of the proceeding shall be paid out of his estate, or if that be insufficient, by the county.

SEC. 1477.  If the persons be discharged, the costs shall be paid by the person at whose instance the proceeding was had, unless such person be an officer, acting officially under the provisions of this Act; in which case the costs shall be paid by the county.

SEC. 1478.  Special guardians and attorneys appointed to represent absentees, shall receive a reasonable compensation, which the Court shall determine, and order to be paid out of the shares of the persons whom they represent.

Chapter III. Appeal from county court to district court, in matters of probate.

SEC. 1479.  Any person who may consider himself aggrieved by any decision, order or judgment of the County Court, or by any order of the Chief Justice thereof, may appeal to the District Court, as a matter of right, without bond.

SEC. 1480.  An appeal is taken by causing an entry of notice thereof to be made on the record, during the term at which such decision, order or judgment is entered; of if the order be made in vacation, by causing the entry of such notice to be made before the close of the next term.

SEC. 1481.  When such notice has been given, a certified transcript of the proceeding shall be made out and transmitted to the District Court.  Such transcript shall not contain any thing which does not relate to the order, decision or judgment appealed from.

SEC. 1482.  If there be not time to make out such transcript before the first day of the next term of the District Court after such appeal is taken, it shall be transmitted to the next succeeding term of said Court.

SEC. 1483.  The appeal shall not suspend the decision, order or judgment, except in the cases mentioned in the succeeding Article, unless the appellant, within twenty days after the entry thereof, cause a bond to be filed, in an amount to be fixed by the Court, signed by one or more sureties, payable to and approved by the Chief Justice, to the effect that the appellant shall perform the orders and judgment which the District Court may make therein, in case the decision be against him.

SEC. 1484.  An appeal suspends the decision, order or judgment, without bond – 
1.	When taken by a claimant, from the disapproval of his claim.
2.	When taken by the executor, administrator, guardian or trustee, except where the controversy is respecting the right to administer, or the settlement or an account.

SEC. 1485.  When the certified copy of the judgment of the District Court is received, it shall be entered of record as the decision, order or judgment of the County Court.

SEC. 1486.  Where a certified copy of the order or judgment of the District Court is received, dismissing an appeal or certiorari, or quashing a supersedeas, it shall be entered of record, and the decision, order or judgment shall stand as if no appeal, certiorari or supersedeas had been taken or obtained.

Final Title. General provisions relating to the whole code of civil procedure.

SEC. 1487.  The term real property or real estate, as used in this Code, includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.

SEC. 1488.  The term personal property as used in this Code, includes slaves, money, goods, chattels, things in action, and evidences of debt.

SEC. 1489.  The term property as used in this Code, includes property real and personal.

SEC. 1490.  Time is reckoned by days and not by hours.  Months and years are reckoned according to the months and years of the calendar, which shall have elapsed during the given time.

SEC. 1491.  The rule of the common law, that Statutes in derogation thereof are to be strictly construed, shall not be applied to this Code.  Its provisions and all proceedings under it, shall be liberally construed with a view to promote its objects, and to assist the parties in obtaining justice.

SEC. 1492.  This act shall take effect on the ___________ day of ______________ next.

Appendix.

Title 1.  Of the time of commencing suits in the district court.

Chapter 1. Preliminary Provisions. 
SEC. 1.  All laws heretofore in force in relation to the time of commencing suits are repealed; and the provisions of this Title are substituted in their stead; except that this Title shall not extend to suits already commenced, or to cases where the right of action has already occurred, or to cases where limitation has already commenced to run; but the statuies now in force shall be applicable to such cases in the same manner as if this Code had not been enacted.
	To be inserted in the Code as the first Title of the second Part; the numbers of the Titles and Articles of the whole of that Fact to be changed accordingly.  

SEC. 2.  Suits can only be commenced within the periods prescribed in this Title; but the objection that the suit was not commenced, within the time limited must be disregarded unless it be taken by demurrer or answer, except in cases provided for in the succeeding Article.

SEC. 3.  Creditors and every other person who may have an interest, after the period of limitation shall have entirely transpired, have a right to plead it, even in case the person directly entitled under such plea should renounce it.  But this Article gives to creditors no further control over this species of property than over any other belonging to the debtor.

SEC. 4.  In every suit against an executor, administrator or guardian, the plea of limitation shall be always regarded as pleaded, and it shall be the duty of the court to see that it be made effectual in cases where it is applicable.

SEC. 5.  The establishment of a period within which a suit must be commenced, is called limitation, and limitation is said to run from the commencement of such period.  A plea of limitation is an objection that the suit has not been commenced within the time prescribed by law.

SEC. 6.  Limitation does not run between husband and wife, unless there be a separation of property.

SEC. 7.  Where the commencement of a suit is stayed by injunction or statutory prohibition, the time of the continuance of the injunction or prohibition shall not be computed in the time limited for the commencement of the suit.

SEC. 8.  No provision of the law of limitations shall be considered as extending to a case of continuing and subsisting trust.

SEC. 9.  The plea of limitation cannot avail, where the thing which is the object of it, is not susceptible of alienation, or the alienation of it is prohibited by law.

SEC. 10.  Limitation runs in all cases and against all persons, except as otherwise provided in this Title.

Chapter II. Time of commencing suits for the recovery of real property.

SECTION 1. In General.
SEC. 11.  There is no limit within which a suit for the recovery of real property, must be commenced by this State, or against any person in possession as an officer or tenant of this State.

SEC. 12.  The exemption of the State, as provided in the preceding Article, does not enure to the benefit of its grantee.  Therefore, a person who claims by grant from this State, made pending the adverse possession of another, must bring suit for the recovery of the property within the same period within which the State would have been required to bring such suit, if the same limitation provided for other like cases, had been running against it.

SEC. 13.  A possession without authority or by authority of a certificate of headright, bounty warrant or land scrip, shall be deemed to be adverse to the State, for the purpose mentioned in the preceding Article.

SEC. 14.  A suit to recover real property against an adverse possessor without such evidence of title as under the subsequent provisions of this Chapter causes a different rule to apply, shall be brought within ten years from the commencement of such adverse possession, and not afterwards.  The adverse possessor in such cases is called a naked possessor.

SEC. 15.  The naked possessor shall be deemed to have been possessed adversely in the following cases only:
1.	Where the fee being in the State, at the commencement of the possession, he has resident upon the land continuously without special authority to do so.
2.	Where, the fee being out of the State, at the commencement of the possession, he has resided upon the land continuously, claiming it as his own property.
	The possession of the naked possessor shall be deemed to extend to and include six hundred and forty acres, subject to the provisions of Article 26, and no more, unless the naked possessor has during said period, had a greater quantity usually under cultivation or protected by a substantial inclosure; in which case the possession shall be deemed to extend to and include the land so cultivated or inclosed without exception.

SEC. 16.  A naked possessor cannot possess by a tenant; nor can a person who enters as tenant of another, avail himself of the plea of naked possession, against the true owner, whether such true owner be the supposed landlord or not.

SEC. 17.  Suits for the recovery of real estate from adverse possessors under a deed, judgment or decree of a competent Court, duly recorded in the office of the Clerk of the county Court, of the county where the land lies, shall be commenced within seven years from the co-existence of such possession and deed, judgment or decree, duly recorded; and not afterwards.

SEC. 18.  All that is required for the deed mentioned in the preceding Article is, that it be such as would convey the property, or entitle the obligee to a conveyance of the same, either with or without condition, if the grantor or obligor were the true owner.

SEC. 19.  Suits to recover real property, against adverse possessors, under title or color of title, shall be commenced within five years after the co-existence of such possession and title or color of title, and not afterwards.

SEC. 20.  By the term title, as used in the preceding Article, is meant a regular chain or transfer, from or under the sovereignty of the soil, duly recorded in the county where the land lies.

SEC. 21. By the term color of title as used in Article 19, is meant – 
1.	A consecutive chain of transfer by contract or operation or law, without being regular; as if one or more of the muniments be not recorded in the county where the land lies, or not duly recorded, or such like defect as may not extend to or include the want of intrinsic fairness and honesty.
2.	A location of a certificate of headright, bounty warrant, or land scrip, to which the possessor has title or color of title, on land the fee of which is in this State at the time of the location.

SEC. 22.  Within the intent of the second subdivision of the preceding Article, and Article 15, and for the purposes of limitation alone, the fee of all land in this State shall be deemed to be in the State; except – 
1.	Where such land has been granted by this State or by the Republic of Texas; or
2.	Where such land has been granted by any former government as a headright or augmentation; or
3.	Where such land has been granted by a former government, and the grant has been confirmed by the Legislature of this State or by the Congress of the Republic of Texas; or
4.	Where land has been granted by a former government, and the grant has been established by suit in any Court of this State or of the Republic of Texas; and 
5.	In addition to one of the requirements of the foregoing subdivisions, has been at a time anterior to the settlement or location of the adverse possession, plotted on the map of the county or district in which such land may be situated.

SEC. 23.  Any one or more of the transfers in a chain of title or color of title, may be voidable; but none of them must be void, and in no case shall a patent from the Republic or State of Texas be deemed to be void, within the meaning of this Article.

SEC. 24.  A possessor under the deed of an assessor and collector at a sale for taxes, shall be deemed to be a possessor under deed only, and not under title or color of title.

SEC. 25.  For the purpose of constituting adverse possession within the meaning of Articles 17 and 19, there must be continuous residence on the land by the person pleading limitation, or person claiming under him.

SEC. 26.  When a person has a deed, or judgment, or decree of a competent Court duly recorded, or a title or color of title and possession conformably to it, he is presumed to possess according to the title and to the full extent of its limits except – 
1.	This provision is controlled by the preceding Article.
2.	The constructive possession given by this Article and Article 15, is not given against a person on whose lands the possessor does not reside; except as provided in the succeeding Article.

SEC. 27.  Where improvements or inclosures extend over an adjoining proprietor, limitation runs as to the amount actually cultivated or inclosed.

SEC. 28.  In every suit for the recovery of real property the person establishing a legal title to the premises shall be presumed to have been possessed thereof from the date of the title; and the occupation of such premises by any other person, shall be deemed to have been under and in subordination to the legal title, unless it appear that such premises have been possessed adversely to such legal title.

SEC. 29.  The time within which a suit to recover real property may be commenced, shall not be affected by a descent being cast in consequence of the death of a person in possession of such property.

SEC. 30.  A suit to enforce a real right, to which property may be subject, shall be commenced within the same period as a suit for the recovery of the property itself, after the person in possession of the right shall have last exercised the same.

SEC. 31.  The periods limited for the commencement of suits to recover real property, apply to all suits in any manner affecting the title to such property.

SECTION 2 Time of commencing suit, where relation of landlord and tenant or vendor and vendee exists.

SEC. 32.  Whenever the relation of landlord and tenant shall have existed between any persons, a suit to recover the property may be commenced by the landlord and those claiming under him, at any time within ten years after the termination of the tenancy; or where there has been no written lease, within ten years from the time of the last payment of rent; notwithstanding that such tenant may have acquired another title, or may have claimed to hold adversely to his landlord; but such suit cannot be brought after the period herein limited.

SEC. 33.  There is no limit within which a suit for a specific performance must be brought by a vendee against his vendor, under an agreement in writing to convey, 
1.	Where the vendee has entered  into and continued in possession nnder the contract; or,
2.	Where the vendee has paid the purchase money according to the terms of the contract, or in payments which have been accepted.

SEC. 34.  In all cases not provided for in the preceding Article, the question whether a specific performance ought to be decreed shall depend upon the equality of the case, taking into consideration the terms of the agreement, the situation of the parties, the laches or diligence of the parties, and all equitable considerations which are usually considered in Courts of Equity, in determining the question of specific performance; but where the equity of the case is clearly on the side of the vendee, lapse of time of itself cannot defeat the suit.
SEC. 35.  A suit by the vendor to recover back the land on the ground that the purchase money has not been paid, where there was only an agreement to convey, may be commenced at any time, without limit, unless the vendee take possession and give notice to the vendor that he claims adversely to him; in which case the suit may be brought within five years from the date of the notice of adverse possession, but not afterwards.

Chapter III. Time of commencing suits for the recovery of personal property other than money.

SEC. 36.  Where a person shall have had possession of personal property which has not been stolen, claiming and using it as his own, a suit for the recovery thereof may be commenced within four years; but not after.

SEC. 37.  The preceding Article refers only to a suit which is brought against the person who has the property in his possession when the suit is brought.

SEC. 38.  Those who possess for others, and not in their own name, cannot plead limitation; but the possession of the former is the possession of the latter.

SEC. 39.  Where possession of personal property shall have commenced in the name of another, it cannot be changed except by proving that the real owner had knowledge of the adverse possession.

Chapter IV. General provisions as to the time of commencing suits to recover real and personal property, other than money.

SEC. 40.  The actual possessor, when he proves that he has formerly been in possession, shall be presumed also to have been in possession in the intermediate time, until the contrary is shown.

SEC. 41.  The possessor is allowed to make the sum of possession necessary to avail in a plea of limitation, by adding to his own possession that of the persons from whom he derives his right, in whatever manner he may have succeeded him.  Thus the possession of the heir may be joined to that of the ancestor, and the possession of the buyer to that of the seller.  But to enjoy this advantage, the different possessions must have succeeded each other without interval or interruption.  Nor can the period of limitation under one Article of this Title be added to the period of limitation under another.

SEC. 42.  An interval or interruption of less than three months shall not defeat a plea of limitation under the preceding Article, nor under Articles 15 and 25, provided there be a general residence, and not merely periodical visits with a view to claim the benefit of limitation.

Chapter V.  Time of commencing suits for the recovery of debts and the enforcement of peouniary liabilities.

SEC. 43.  The following suits shall be commenced within ten years from the time the cause of action accrues, and not after.
1.	Upon a judgment or decree of any Court of this state; and the cause of action shall be deemed, for the purpose of this limitation, to have accrued on the day for the return of the last execution which shall have been regularly issued.
2.	Against a builder or architect, for defect in the construction of buildings of brick or stone, except that suit shall be commenced in such case within one year after the discovery of the defect, and not after.

SEC. 44.  The following suits shall be commenced within six years from the time the cause of action accrues, and not after:
	Upon a judgment or decree of any Court of the United States or of any State or territory thereof.
	Upon a claim for money received as agent or for the use of another.

SEC. 45.  The following suits shall be commenced within four years form the time the cause of action accrue, and not after:
1.	Upon a hill of exchange, check, draft, order or promissory note.
2.	Upon all other obligations or contracts in writing, not expressly excepted or provided for by this Code.

SEC. 46.  The following suits shall be commenced within three years from the time the cause of action accrues, and not after:
1.	For taking or detaining personal property, or for converting the same to one’s own use.
2.	For any injury to the right of another not included in any other provision of this Code.

SEC. 47.  The following suits shall be commenced within two years from the time the cause of action accrues, and not after:
1.	For injuries done to property, real or personal.
2.	Upon a cause of action given by a statute, other than for a penalty or forfeiture.
3.	For the recovery of rent.
4.	Upon a contract, express or implied, but not in writing, other than those for which a different limitation is expressly provided.

SEC. 48.  The following suits shall be commenced within one year from the time the cause of action accrues, and not after.
1.	For injuries to the person.
2.	For injuries to the character.
3.	For malicious prosecution or false imprisonment.
4.	For seduction, criminal conversation, or breach of promise of marriage.
5.	For a penalty or forfeiture under a penal statute, other than the penalty of a bond, or recognizance.

SEC. 49.  A cause of action is said to accrue, within the intent of this Chapter, at the first instant when a suit might have been legally commenced; except.
1.	Where there are natural and current accounts between merchant and merchant, their factors and servants, the cause of action shall be deemed to have accrued within the intent of this Chapter from the time of the last item proved on either side.
2.	On all other accounts not included within the first subdivision of this Article, the cause of action shall be deemed to have accrued, within the intent of this Chapter, on each article charged therein, on the first day of January next after the date of the entry, unless there be a contract to give a certain time beyond said first day of January, for payment, in which case the cause of action shall be deemed to have accrued on the first day of January next after the expiration of the credit so given.

SEC. 50.  An account is said to be mutual within the meaning of the preceding Article, where there are debts and credits, whether of goods, wares and merchandise, or other property, or of payments on account.

SEC. 51.  An account is said to be current where a year does not elapse between any two credits, or any two debits,  or between a debit and credit.

SEC. 52.  Bills receivable or payable, being bills payable by one party to the account of the other, are not proper debits or credits within the meaning of the two preceding Articles.

SEC. 53.  If any person shall willfully post-date the time at which any article or articles charged in any account was sold or delivered, he shall forfeit ten times the amount of such article or articles, to be recovered with costs in a suit brought at any time within one year from the rendering of the account, by any person who might have been injured by such post-dating.

SEC. 54.  Suits on the bond of any executor, administrator or guardian shall be commenced within four years after the death, resignation, removal or discharge of such executor, administrator or guardian, and not thereafter; provided, however, that infants, and persons of unsound mind, or their representatives, shall have at least two years within which to institute such suits, after the removal of their respective disabilities, of after the death of any one dying under such disability.

Chapter VI.  Minors, married women, persons of unsound mind and persons imprisoned

SEC. 55.  If during marriage the wife become entitled to commence a suit, or a cause of action accrue to her, for the recovery of real property or slaves, or she become entitled to make any defense founded on the title to such property.
1.	Where such property, being her separdte property shall have been illegally sold, alienated or otherwise disposed of by the husband; or
2.	Where in any suit respecting such property, the husband shall have an interest therein adverse to that of the wife;
	The time of the continuance of the marriage shall not be deemed any portion of the time in this Title limited for the commencement of such suit or the making of such defence; but such suit may be commenced or such defence made at any time within three years after the dissolution of the marriage by death or otherwise.

SEC. 56.  If a person entitled to bring any suit other than those mentioned in Article 48, except for a penalty or forfeiture, be at the time that cause of action accrues, either
1.	Within the age of twenty-one years,
2.	Of unsound mind; or
3.	Imprisoned under sentence of a Court for a term less than for life.
	The time of such disability shall not be deemed a portion of the time limited for the commencement of the suit, except that the period within which the suit must be brought cannot be extended more than five years, by any such disability.  This Article is controlled by Article 54; and the guardian shall be held responsible.

SEC. 57.  No person can avail himself of a disability, unless it exist when the cause of action accrues.

SEC. 58.  When two or more disabilities co-exist at the time the cause of action accrues, the limitation does not attach until they are all removed.

SEC. 59.  Upon the death of a person under disability, or on the transfer of the right of action, the limitation commences to run, notwithstanding the person to whom the right of action descends or is transferred be under disability at the time.

Chapter VII.  General provisions relating to the time of commencing suits, and the interruption of limitation.

SEC. 60.  The delivery of the complaint or amendment thereto, to the Clerk of the Court in which the suit is to be commenced, or is commenced, for the purpose of being filed, or the acknowledgement of the service thereof by the defendant, shall be deemed the commencement of the suit, and shall interrupt limitation as to the cause of action stated in the compliant or amendment.  In like manner the filing or acknowledgment of the service of the answer or amendment thereto, as to any counter claim stated therein.

SEC. 61.  If a person entitled to bring a suit, or against whom a right of action exists, dies within one year before the expiration of the time limited for a commencement thereof, and the right of action survive, such suit may be brought at any time within one year from such death.

SEC. 62.  Where an alien enemy is incompetent to sue limitation shall not run during such incapacity.

SEC. 63.  If when a cause of action included in Chapter three or five of this Title, shall accrue against any person he shall be out of this State, the suit may be commenced within the times limited in said Chapters, after such person shall return or come into this State, except as provided in the next succeeding Article; and if, after such cause of action shall have accrued, such person shall depart from and reside out of the State, the time of his absence shall not be deemed or taken as any part of the time limited for the commencement of such suit.

SEC. 64.  Where a person resides out of this State when a cause of action included in Chapter three or five of this Title accrues, and such cause of action does not accrue in this State, and such person afterwards removes to this State to reside, if the suit was barred by limitation in the State or country whence he removed, no suit can be brought upon such cause of action in this State; if suit was not so barred at the time of the removal, the limitation prescribed in said Chapters shall apply, except that at least one year shall be allowed to commence the suit, after the removal of such person to this State.

SEC. 65.  If a person entitled to commence suit for the recovery of real property or slaves, or to make any defence founded on the title thereto, be at the time such title shall first descend or the adverse possession commence.
1.	Within the age of twenty-one years; or
2.	Of unsound mind; or
3.	Imprisoned under the sentence of a Court, for a time less than for life.
	The time during which such disabi;ity shall continue, shall not be deemed any portion of the time in this Title limited for the commencement of such suit, or the making of such defence; but such suit may be commenced or defence made within three years after such disability shall cease, or after the death of the person entitled, who shall die under disability.

SEC. 66.  No acknowledgement or promise shall be sufficient evidence of a new or continuing contract, whereby to take the case out of the limitation prescribed by Chapter five of this Title, unless the same be in writing and signed by the party to be charged thereby, or by some person lawfully authorized to make such acknowledgment or promise.

SEC. 67.  An administrator, executor or guardian has no authority to make the promise or ackniwledgment mentioned in the preceding Article.

SEC. 68.  One of several joint debtors, who are not partners, has no authority to make the promise or acknowledgement mentioned in the secend preceding Article, so as to bind his co-debtors; nor can a partner make such promise or acknowledgement after the dissolution of the partnership, so as to bind his co-partner.

SEC. 69.  Where limitation shall have commenced to run, it shall not be interrupted in any manner not provided for in this Act.

SEC. 70.  Where a suit is commenced within the time limited by law, and judgment therein for the plaintiff be reversed and the cause be not remanded, the plaintiff or if he dies and the cause of action survive, his representative may commence a new suit within one year after such reversal.

SEC. 71.  The limitations prescribed in Chapter V of this Title, and in Articles 43, 44, 45, 46 and 47, shall apply to suits brought by this State, or for its benefit.

SEC. 72.  Limitation does not run against a suit on a bill, note or other evidence of debt, issued or put in circulation as money.


