m  sron. 17

SEC. 8: Officers or agents, contemplated in this Act,
shall deliver to their successors in oiiice all moneys, books, gél;c1ft§st<},rde_

a. rs and other propert belonging to the office and take. a liver moneys,
i}?ecIe)i3pt therefor, and Wllen from the Territorial. Treasurer §’1‘,",.;,‘,f.°’,u‘§f,".,’,,.‘°
deposit an attested co y thereof with the Auditor of Pubhc 5°":
Accounts; when from t e County Treasurer deposit said _co%3(;
with the Clerk of the Count Court, which copies shall

deposited Within thirty days In the date of receipt.

AN nor

To Regulate Proceedings in Civil Case: in the Courts of Jus-
tice of this Territory, and to Repeal certain Acts and Parts

of dots.
TITLE I.

0f'the Form of Civil Aotiomand the Parties thereto.

SEC. 1. Be it enacted by the Governor and Legislative
Assembly of the Territory of Utah: That there shall be in ggggggfom
this Territory but one form of civil action for the enforcement
or protection of private rights, and the redress or prevention
of private wrongs. - o

. SEC. 2. In such action the party complaining shall be Farm
known as the &%a.intifi', and the adverse party as the defendant. designated.

SEC. 3. hen a question of fact, not put in issue by the
pleadings, is to be tried by order for the trial may be ?;{§_'“°n °f
made, stating distinctly an p ' y the question of fact to be
tried and such order shall be the only authority necessary for
a. tri . i o n
SEC. 4. Every action shall be prosecuted in the name of Acmnm
the real party in ‘interest, except as otherwise provided in this whose name
Act. . A prosecuted.

SE0. 5. In the case of an assignment of a thing in action,
the action by the assignee shall» be-without rejudice to any set-
off or other defense, existing at the time O , or before notice of S If h
the assignment; but this Section shall not a plyto a negotiable n3i'§re3Y;a?§oa
promissory note or bill of exchange, trans erred in good faith, ,
and upon good consideration, before due.

SEC. 6. An executor, or administrator, or trustee of an ‘gm
express trust, or_a person eitpressly authorized by statute, may e,e.,‘{R§’,?,'
sue without Joining with him the rson or ns for whose
benefit the action is prosecuted‘. trustee 0 an express trust,
jvithin the_ meaning of i this Section, shall be construed to
include a rson with whom, or in whose name, a contract is
made for t e benefit of another. - o - o .  

. Size, 7. VVhen a married woman isa , her husband when mmed
shall be joined with-her; except that: ' When the action womanis
concerns her separate property, she may sue alone. Second— ‘.‘,’§‘.;‘,,’g’,-o.,.,

B

1_8 LAWS or UTAH.

when the action is between herself and her husband, she may
sue or be sued alone. .— " '

Defense by. SEC. 8. . If a husband and wife be sued together, the wife

may defend for her own rig'ht.'r
, Size. .9. VVhei1 aa 'II]inCI1'-.’-"is a partly, he shall appear by
:g;.g,nhow to guardian, who ma be appointed b t e Court in which the
action is prosecute , org: a.,Jud t ereof. _‘
~ _ SEC. 10. The gua ‘an .sha.l be appointed as follows:
Gmrdmmhow First—.When the minor is plaintiff, upon the application of
appointed. the minor, if he be of the age of fourteen years; or, if under
that age, upon the application of a relative or friend of the
minor. _Second—When the minor ‘is, defendant, upon the
ap hcation of the minor, if he be of the age of fourteen years,
an a ply Within ten days after the service of the summons;
if be e under _the_age of fourteen, or neglect so to apply, then
upon the a phcation of anyxother party to the action, or of a

- 0

relative or riend of the minor. \ H
h _ 5 SEO. 11. A father, or i‘n"case of his death or desertion of
3.1, ‘.‘,f’£§ his family, the II10th6l, may maintain an action for the injury
(1)11; deatliiof a child; and a guafdian'for the injury or death of
swar. . _. ,)_H_, . _
_?piamwrwho SEC. 12. All persons‘ having aninterest in the subject of
‘““V"°3°"‘°“' the action, and in *obtaini~hg?jthe‘_ relief demanded, may be
jgined as plaintiffs, except Iwihen otherwise provided in this
ct. "~ .'    '*- * ‘
SEC.‘ 13.“ ‘Any person may be’ a defendant, who has, or
£‘{’,f,°§,‘},‘;,“{’,;, claims, an interest in the controversy, adverse to the plaintiff,
made or who is a necessary party"to' ‘ a’? complete determination or
settlement of: the question involved therein. '
SEQ.‘ 14. Of the? artiesxto the‘ac_tion, those who are united
ggggeegrhow in interest shall-be ‘j nediasf laintiffs, or defendants; but if
' the consent of any ‘one, “ should'- have been joined "as"
plaintiff, cannot be obtained,” hetmay be made a defendant, the
reason thereof being stated in the complaint; and when the
question is one of at common“pr- general interest, of many er-
sons, or when the parties‘a‘re>i1umerous, and it is impractica le
to bring them all before the Court, one or more may sue or
defend for the ‘benefit of-ally ‘Tenants in common, joint tenants,
, or co- artners; ‘or an ennmiber -less than all may jointly or
severa y bring »or efend, * or .continue the prosecution or
defense, or axny-action for the‘ enforcement of the rights of such
, person orpersons.-’. “  * " -1 '
SEC. 15. Persons severally liable upon the same obliga-
] tion or -instrument, including the parties to bills of exchange
§§’£'i§“i§i°a’§ be and promissory notes,‘ ‘ah1d:ssn*reties ‘on the same or separate
101"“ instruments, may"all_, ‘or  them, be included ‘in the same
action, at the option“ of >thenp1a.intiB’.* "j ‘

SEC. 16. An-action’ shall: notiabate by the death, or other
disability of apathy, or by! the’ transfer of ‘any interest therein,’
if the cause 0 action survive or continue. In case ‘of the

‘ Dreathofggrw death, or disability, df:a' party, the Court, on motion, may
.31 interest. allow the action to be continued by or against his representa-

tive or successor_in.inte‘rest; .. In the case of any other transfei}

NINETEENTH snssrorr. 19

of interest, the action may be continued in the name of the
original party, or the Court may allow the person to whom the
transfer 1s made to be substituted in the action. After verdict
shall have been rendered in any action for a wrong, such -
action shall not abate by the death of any party, but the case
shall proceed thereafter in the same manner as in cases where

the cause of action now survives by law.

SEO. 17. The Court may determine any controversy
between parties before. it, when it can be done without preju-
dice to the rights of others, or by saving their rights; but when gontrovemy,
a complete determination of the controversy cannot be had ghg§fe°rg§;te_
without the presence of other parties, the Court shall order
them to be brought in, and thereupon the party directed by‘
the Court shall serve a co y of the summons in the action,
and the order aforesaid in h e manner of service of the original
summons, upon each of the parties ordered to be brought in,
who shall have ten days, or such time as the Court may order,
after service in which to appear and plead; and in case such ’
arty fail to appear and plead within the time aforesaid, the
ourt may cause his default to be entered, and proceed as in
other cases of default, or may make such * other order as the
condition of the action and justice shall require. ‘ ‘ ’

TITLE II. A
Of the':Place of Trial of Chm’! Actions.-

SEC. 18. Actions for the following causes shallbe tried ~
in the County in which the subject of the action or some part
thereof, is situated, subject to the power of the Court to change zQ’§§38:§'bj°°t
the place of trial, as provided in this Act: First—for the ““““‘°d'
recovery of real property, or of an estate, or_interest.therein, or
£3: §2?.te:::e:n::1°*;;“ 33>’ “gm 2f.-sth eh‘  °’£
propelrty. Tmfa_PFo¥"ih%," :or§§fésu;.Z Si a-Q1ii)c?rtg1za.l§<Iali;)f $221 rm
property; provided, that where such real property is situate
partly in one County and partly in another, the 1-plaintiff" ma .
select either_of said Counties, and the County soselected sha 1 ‘
be the proper County for the trial of any or all of such actions A
as are mentioned in the First, Second and Third‘ subdivisions ' ‘ ’
of this Section.  , - ' '  

SEC. 19. Actions for -the following causes shall be tried
in the County where the cause, or some part thereof, arose,’
:%’:~1::§.‘e:2:_tt: {’§;“i2.%£§3§? .§’f°‘;’°p:‘:..:t;“%: tzietsrg .~;~.v=.-.e.:;.s.«».=.»»=»«
imposed by statute; exce t, that when it is imposed’ for an "°°°"
offencedcommitted on a la e, river or other stream of 7 water,
situate in two or more Counties; the action ma be bro ht in
any C:>eu€;:)t*hbor1<leringh on t1T1G1&l&ke, river gr St € and;
opposi e ace w ere e o ence was committe ‘. econd
-——Against a (pu lic officer, or person specially appointed to
execute his uties, for an act done by him in virtue of his

20 LAWS on um u.

office, or against a person who, by his command or in his aid,
does anything touchincr the duties of such officer.
SEC. 20. In all ot er cases, the action shall be tried in the
mm “me, County where the cause of action originated, or in which the
reside» defendants, or anyone of them, may reside at the commence-
ment of the action: or, if none of the defendants-reside in the
Territory, or if residing in the Te1'ri..u1'y,‘ the County in which
they so reside be unknown to the p1a1ntiti',the same may be
tried in any County which the plaintiff may designate in his
complaint; and if any defendant, or defendants, may be about
to depart from the Territory, such action may be tried in any
County where either of the parties may reside, or service ‘be
had, subject, however, to the power of the Court to change the
place of trial, as provided in this Act.

, SEC. 21.: If the County designated for that purpose in
§};‘,,,H.‘,”§m,_ the complaint be not the proper County, the action may, not-
withstanding, be tried therein, unless the defendant, before the
time for. answering-expire, demand inwriting that the-trial be
had in the proper County, and the place of trial be thereupon
changed by consent of parties, or by order of the Court, as 
provided in this Section. The Court may, on motion, change
the place .of trial in the following cases: First——\Vhen the
County designated in the complaint is not the proper County.
Second—VVhen there is reason to believe that an im artial trial
cannot be had therein. Third—VVhen convenience o_ witnessess
and the ends of justice would be promoted by the change.
Fourth—VVhen from any cause the Judge is disqualified from
acting in the case. VVhen the place of trial is changed, all
other proceedings shall be had in the County to which the
place of trial is changed; unless otherwise provided by con-
sent of the parties in writing duly iiled, or by order of the
Court; and,the papers shall be filed , or transferred accordingly.

, ~ TITLE I[[. T
' ,‘,,0f the Manner of Commencing Civil Actions.

~ . SEC. 22. Civillaction in the courts‘ shall be commenced
by the filing of a.complaint.with the Clerk of the Court, and

°"*“‘°“°”‘* the issuance - of a summons thereon; provided, that after the \

33d''ir(3:lh§1emen- filing of the complaint a defendant in the action may appear,

DEW‘ mm answer or demujr, whether~,the summons has been issued or
not, and such ap arance,; answer .or demurrer, shall be

deemed a waiver o the summons. ’ A V
com um ‘ ; Sign. .23. The .Cle1=k_.sh_all yendlcrse on the complaint the
howpindorsed. day, month and year the i_s filed, and atany time within
one year after. filing. of the same, the plaintiff may cause to be
 ‘issued a summons thereon. The summons shallbe issued by
- the Clerk uI.1d,er the seal’ of the Court. « ~ - z -
Size. 24.. The summons shall state : the parties’ to the
action, the Court in which it is» broughet," the County in which
the complaint is tiled,-the cause and general‘ natureof the
gixlingis. action, and require the defendant  appear andanswer the
- complaint,-_with,in the time mentioned in the next Section,

.' 3

NINm;~:ENr1I SESSION. , 21

after the service of summons, exclusive of the day of service;
or that judgment‘ by default will be taken against him, accord-
ing to the prayer of the com laint, briefly stating the sum of
Inoney or other relief deman ed in the complaint. "

SEC. 25. The time in which the summons shall require
the defendant to answer the complaint shall be as follows: 5 ‘ha
First—If the defendant is served Wlthin the County in which cobemalae.
the action isbrought, ten days. Second—if the defendant is
served out of the County, but in the District in which the
action is brought, twenty days. A Third-In all other cases,
forty days. x - ‘

SEC. 26. There shall also be inserted in the summons a
notice in substance as follows: First—ln an action arising on Home who
contract for the recovery only of money or damages, that the gnserted in
plaintiff will take judgment for a sum specified therein, if the °mm°“3’

defendant fail to answer the complaint. Second—In other

7 actions, that if the defendant fail to answer the com laint, the

plaintiff will apply to the Court for the relief emanded
therein. - . h .
SEC. 27. In an action. for the foreclosure of a mortgage .

upon real property, or affecting the title or ossession of real

property, the plaintiff, at the time "of filing t e complaint, and

the defendant, at the time of filing his answer, when aiiirmative

relief is claimed in such answer, or at any time‘ afterwards, ’

may file with the Recorder of the County in which the Not,” in
roperty, or some part thereof is situated, a notice of the pen- act1bnun'ecti’z
c ency of the action, containing the names of theaparties, the "°'“ P"°’°"”
object of the action, and a d iscription of the property in that

County affected thereby, and the defendant may also, in such

notice, state the nature aml extent of the relief claimedin the

answer. From the time of filing, only, shall the pendency of

the action be constructive notice to a urchaser, or incum-

brancer of the property afi'ected there y; and in‘ case of the
foreclosure of such niortgage all purchasers or incumbrancers,

by unrecorded deed or other instrument in writing made prior

to the filing of such notice, and subsequent to the date of such

‘mortgage, shall be deemed and held purchasers or incumbran-

cers subsequent to the filing of such notice, and subject thereto,
unless they can show that at the ‘time of filing the notice the
plaintiff had actual notice of such urchase or incumbrance.

SEC. 28. The summons shall e served by the Territorial
Marshal, or the Sherriif of the County where the defendant is
found, a.nd, except as hereinafter rovided, a copy of the
complaint, certified by the Clerk 0 the Court in which the
action is commenced, shall be served with the summons. whom served.
VVhen the summons shall be served by the Territorial Marshal,

' or the Sherriif of the County, it shall be returned with the

certificate or afiidavit of the officer, of‘ its service, and of the
service of the copy of the complaint, to the ofiice of the Clerk

A of the Court in ‘which the ac:1on'is commenced. When the
summons is served by any other erson, as before provided, it ,
shall be returned to the oflice o the Clerk of the Court in
which the action is commenced with the affidavit of such

How served.

publlcatlzi.

Bane.

‘orb

LAWS OF UTAH.

person of its service, and of the service of a. cop of the
com laint. If there be more than one defendant to t e action
resi 'ng within the County in which the action is brought, a
o the complaint need be served only on one of such

a co y
delgendants.

SEC. 29. The summons shall be served by delivering a

copy thereof attatched to the certified copy of the complaint, A
i asfollows: First-—If the suit be against any incorporated city,
service shall be made on the Mayor and Recorder:

Second—
If the suit be -against any,County, service shall be made on
the Probate Judge and Clerk of the County Court: Third—If
the suit be against a school district, service shall be made on
the 'I‘rustees: Fourth——If the suit be against any irrigating
company, service shall be made on the superintendent or
water master: Fifth—If the suit be against any other

corporate bod , incorporated .-under the laws of the Territory,

service shall made on the President or chief officer, and on
its Secretary or Clerk, if it has such secreta or clerk. Where
the defendant is a foreign corporation an has an acknow-
ledged_agent, in this Territory, service may be made on such
agent, or if no such agent is found, on any person in its em-
p oy, or who has any of its property in charge: Sixth—If
against a minor under the age of fourteen years, on such minor
personally, and also on his father, mother or guardian, or if
such minor has no such father, mother or guardian in the Terri-
tory, then on any person having the care and control of such

, minor, or with whom he resides, or in whose service he is
‘employed: Seventh—If_' against a_person judicially declared to

be ‘of unsound mind, or incapable of conducting his own affairs,
and for whom a

uardiaia has been a pointed, on such guar-
dian: Eighth-

all other cases on t e defendant personally,
leaving a certified copy thereof at his usual place of
abo e with some suitable person of, at least, the age of four-
teen ears. ' ~

EC. 30. When the rson on whom the service is to be
made resides out of the Tirritory, or has de arted from the
Territory, or cannot after due diligence be ound within the
Territory, or conceals himself to avoid the service of summons,
or being a co oration, or joint-stock association, cannot be
served as provi ed in Section Twenty-nine, and the fact shall
appear by affidavit to the satisfaction of the Court or Judge
thereof, and it shall in like manner appear that a cause of
action exists against the defendant in respect to whom the
service is to be made, or that he is a necessary or proper party
to the action, such Court or Judge may grant an order that the

service be made by the publication of the summons.

SEC. 31. The order shall direct the publication to be
made in a newspaper to be desi nated as most likelyto give
notice -to the personsto be served. If any defendant is a non-
resident of the Territory, but has an agent therein, service may

i be made on him by serving the same on his agent, or by leav-

ing a copy thereof at his usual place of business with any
person in charge thereof. Where any defendant is a non-

Nmmznnnrn. srassrorr. 23

resident, or his residence is n:nknown;.and'l has no knownagent
or lace of business in this Territory, service » may be made by
pu lication in some newspaper  ain'?and haviingfa general
circulation in the Territory,'wfrhicha; blication must contain
the names of the parties, p aaintiffran (defendant, to the com-

- plaint, a statement of the objec’t;thereof,-zthe name and style of
, the Court in which the same»isdil'nd.,-.a,I_Id' also -notify the ' er-
- sons thus to be -served when ths;§uaneg*1~eq;uired' to; answer. i ‘d

publication shall be inserted foixr times consecutively the first
msertion shall be at least fortyld sébeforezthe time of answer,
and a co y of which shallgbe, ‘ ‘ diaitelyldeposited gpost
paid) in t e Past Ofiice, directed to thezdefendant or de end-
ants at their «last; known plai2e;}c£';Eu_esidence*or business. In
actions upon contracts for‘. Atheyxdirectf ay?'n1ent:of money, the

Court in its discretion may,:inste'a'sd.ro<f.o dering publicatlon, or

.may after publication, appointrattomey to appear :for the

anon-resident, absent. or concealedzkzdefendant, to -conduct the
proceedings on his part. .  F‘ .c1';:-m;-.»,— .: s ' *' l - 1'

SEC. 32. ‘Where the action is..ag'ainst ‘two ormore defend-  g3
ants, and the summons isnservedaoh .one»or more, but not on glggiesglggce
all of them, the plaintiff ma ptmteed as follows: i First,e—If on some of
the action be against the d endairltso jointly indebted upon a ¥3i§1'§3it3?’
contract, he may proceed agaiusttherdefendant served, unless
the‘Court otherwise direct; and i£:;hc«1‘e‘cover‘ judgment, it may
be entered ainst all the~defen;dants gtzhus jointly indebted, so
far only as t at it may be enforced against. the xgoint .pro rty
of all and the separate property: of} the deiiendant serve ; or,
Second——If the action‘ be againstzwdefendantsi severally liable,
he may proceed against the deiendantse served in the same
manner as if they were the onlyidefendants.‘ ' ‘

- SEC. 33. . Proof of the serviciarofathe‘-summons shall be as

follows: ,First——If served by the .%€'mm'itorial. Marshal, or the

. Sheriff of the County, the affidaavit:or:certifica:teiof such officer; Proof of

or, Second———In case of 3 publication; the. afdidavit of the pub- “°"’°"‘«
lisher, his foreman‘ or principal» elerk,<showing the same, and
an affidavit of a deposit of a co 'y.oi'f:the ‘summons in the Post
Office, if the same ‘shall; have n>'= deposited; or, 'l‘hird—.—the
written admission of the defendants.‘  '~ 3; .- ~ .
SEO. 34. In case of service otherwise than by publication, 5'1"”-

the certificate or aflidavit sha.ll.7state-2 the‘; time and place of
service. ' 3 I  '30 ,f1..;- 5'; 1 3

~ ceedirzg

. - SEO. 35. From the time 'oiithe';serv:ice.~ of the summons in
a civil action, the Court. -shall: be: deemed .to have acquired
jurisdiction, and to have controlsfof-«alltthe subsequent ro-
s. A voluntary» appearance {of a‘ ‘defendant ‘ shal be
ent to personal service of athelosummons upon him.

J urisqiction.

equiv

»;if':»I.t1,,

»_ 7 ; '_z !- _ "
Of the Pzeadmgwnf ‘~Ui*v£EZ"Actions.
. ‘-"':"§.T|". H‘. ' A

SEC. 36. The p1eadings.are'.the-fermal allegations by the P,...,,,,,..

24 LAW! 0!’ UTAH.

parties of their respective claims and defenses, for the judg-
ment of the Court. -

SEC. 37. All the forms of pleadings in civil actions, and
pom, M the rules by which the sumcienc of the pleadings shall be

N108 detelémined, shéllhebe ltlliose resc ed inttlhis Act. f th lam
EC. 38. o ead.1n' on e part 0 e ° -
‘.?.!.:".:"?.‘:'¥.".i‘;....t tiff shall be the oompimiit or emurrer to the defen ant’s

answer- and the only pleadings, on the part of the defend-
ant shall be the demurrer, or he answer. The demurrer or

answer of the defendant, and the demurrer of the plaintiff,
shall be filed with the Clerk, and a copy served on the adverse
party, or his attorney.
. EC. 39. The com laint shall contain: First—The title of
the action, specifying t name of the Court, and the name of
0°“ 12”“ the County in which the action is brought, and the names of
°°“‘“"- the parties to the action, plaintiff and defendant. Second——A
statement of the facts constituting the cause of action in ordi-
nary and concise  Third—A demand of the relief
which the plaintiff c 8. If the recovery of mone or
damages be demanded the amount thereof shall be state .
SEO. 40. The defendant may demur to the com laint
within the time required in the summons to answer, w en it
D.,,..,,,,,,., a pears upon the face thereof, either: First——That the
ourt has no 'urisdiction of the erson of the defendant, or
the subject of t e action; or, Secon -That the plaintiff has not
legal capacity to sue; or, Third-that there is another action
ending between the same parties for the same cause; or,
ourth-There is a defect or misjoinder of arties, laintiff or
defendant; or, Fifth—-That several causes 0 action ave been
impero rly united; or, Sixth——That the complaint does not
sta acts suflicient to constitute a cause of action. Seventh—
That the complaint is ambiguous, unintelligible or uncertain.

SEC. 41. The demumer shall distinctly specify the

Same. grounds upon which any of the objections to the complaint are
taken. Unless it do so it ma be disregarded. '
SEO. 42. The defendan may demur to the whole com-
Same. plaint, or to one or more of several causes of action stated
tllierein, and answer the residue; or may demur and answer at
t e same time. -
SEO. 43. If the complaint be amended, a copy of the
amendment shall be filed, or the Court may, in its iscretion,
Am, ' require the complaint as amended to be nled, and a copy of
°°mP1' - the amendments shall be served upon every defendant to be
' affected thereby or u n his attorney if he has appeared by
attorneiy. The defen ant shall answer in such time a may be
orders by the Court, and judgment by default may be entered
upon failure to answer, as in other cases.
SE0. 44. When any of the matters enumerated in Section
Objections. tljorty do 160%: pea: upon the face of the complaint, the objec-‘-
1011 may e en answer. ‘a
gggggggg . SEC. 45. If no lsruch objection be taken, either by demur-
rer or answer, the defendant shall be deemed to have waived
the same, excepting only the objection to the jurisdict-ion o

NINETEENTII SESSION. O 25

the Court, and theobjection that the complaint does not state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.

SEC. 46. The answer of the defendant shall contain:
First—If the complaint be verified, a s ecific denial to each
allegation of the com laint, controverte by the defendant, or Answer, ,1,“
a denial thereof acco ing to his information and belief; if theta contain-
complaiiit be not verified, then a general denial to each of such
allegations; but a general denial shall only put in. issue the
material and express allegations of the comp taint. Second-

A statement of any new matter_or counter claim constituting a
defense,’ in ordinary and concise language. ' ‘

SEC. 4'7. The counter claim mentioned in the last Section,
shall be one existino in favor of the ‘defendant and against a
plaintiff, between wtliom a several judgment might be had in
the action, and arising out of one of the following causes of
action: First--A cause of action arising out of the transaction °°“"‘°" °‘““'
set forth in the complaint as the foundation of the plaintiff’s
claim, or connected with the subject of the action. ’Second—In
an action arising upon contract, any other cause of action
arising also upon contract and existing at the commencment of
the action. " -

SEO. 48. “Then cross demands have existed between
persons under such circumstances that if one had brought an Cross
action against the other a counter claim could have been set “°"‘““"“'
up, neither shall be deprived of the benefit thereof by the
assignment or death of the other, but the two demands be
deemed compensation so far as they equal each other.

SEC. 49. The defendant may set forth by answer as man §§}.'§,‘,',?,‘,, ma,
defenses and counter claims as he ma have. They shall eac beset up-
be separately stated, and the several efenses shall refer to the '
causes of action which they are intended to answer, in a man-

. ner in which the may be intelligibly distinguished.

SEC. 50. T ie laintiff may, within the number of days
in which the defeiic ant is by the summons required to answer, Demurrer, to
said days to be computed from the time of the service on the ‘“"’“'°"
plaintiff of a copy of such answer, demur to the same for
insufficiency, stating in his demurrer the grounds thereof; and
he may also, within the same time, demur to one or more of
the defenses set up in the answer. Sham and irrelevant
answers and defenses, and so much of any answer as may be
irrelevant, redundant or immaterial may be stricken out on
motion, and upon such terms as the Court, in its discretion,
may impose.

SEC. 51. Every pleading shall be subscribed by the arty P, H to
or his attorne , and when the complaint is verified by atticlavit, be_subscribed.
the answer shall be verified also, except as provided in the 6”’
next Section. ,

SEC. 52. The verification of the answer required in the V

0 . . . . . eritioationa
last Section may be omitted when an admission of the truth of when omitted.
the complaint might subject the party to prosecution for -
felon .

EC. 53. VVhen an action is brought upon a written iii-

strument, and the complaint contains a copy of such instru-

P, believes it to be true. An

26 LAWS or UTAH.

f;‘;°gg§Ingg;wm_ ment, or a copy is annexed thereto, the genuineness and due
£8-r!nIznm&e:lt. execution of such instrument . shall be deemed admitted,
, unless the answer denyin the same be verified.

SEC. 54. When _ the gefense to an action is founded _upon
a written instrument, and a copy thereof is contained in the
, answer, or. a cop is annexed thereto, the gen-uineuess and due
execution of suclyi instrument shall be deemed admitted unless
the plaintiff file with the Clerk within iive days after the
service of the answer, or within such other time as the Court

’ shall order, an aihdavit denying the same. _ _
ama§3ii'o?ite 33$ §1?§f1Ss?§t2’.‘€n§€1’h‘i§iE.‘§1’2i§ ii-£?f3?‘hi§z§i‘§
knowledge, except as to the matters which are therein stated
rtgmner of on his information or ‘belief& amlll as to thosflrmatters, _tfli1a(i1; 

w ere a ea in 1sver1 en 1
‘sllliall be by thz affidavit of the party, (111 ess he ‘absent from
e count w ere the attorne s resi e, or rom some cause
unable 't0}\:e1'ify it, or the factysr are within the knowledge of
his attorney or other person verifying_ the same. , When t'1e
pleading is verified by the attorney, or any other person except
the partya his) shill set forthhthe aiiidavit the reasons why it
is not m e y’ t e party. en a corporation is a art , the
¥erii:rcation may bemmadehby arly ofiitcero tlhglrgof; or Itvhgii the
err1or,or'an o cer ereo inis e ,isa art°te
verification mayybe made by any person acquainte  the
facts; except that in actions rosecuted by the Attorney-General
E; beh_aéf(i)f the Territory, l3Il)le pleadings need not, in any case,
veri e .

SEC. 56. It shall not be necessary for a party to’ set forth
ggeegaggfm, ina pleading the items of an account therein alleged, but he
333.6% shall deliver tothe adverse party within five days, or such
. other time‘ as the Court may dlrect, after a demand thereof, in

writing,,a copy of the account, or be precluded from giving
evidence thereof. The Court, or a Judge thereof, may order a
iC'1ur_ther account -when iihe one delivered is too general or is
e ective in an articu ar. ‘ ~
' SEC. 57. "¥fIi)rrelevant or redundant matter be inserted in
;'g°“!g,‘I_'*n* a pleading, it may hie lstrictken out by the Court on motion of
any erson rieve t ere . .

Recovery of EC. 5_8:.Lg u an action it]: the recovery of real property,
’°‘“ "‘°P°"‘V' such property shall be described, with its metes and bounds,
in the complaint", or with other equal certainty. ’

SEC. 59. In pleading a judgment or other determination
of a Court, or officer of especial jurisdiction, it shall not be
necessary to state the facts conferring jurisdiction» but such

Jndsmenh judgment. or_ determination may be. stated to have been duly
given or made. If such allegation be controverted, the party

.

pleading shall be bound to ‘establish on the trial the facts

conferring jurisdiction. ,
goelgdtfgtf SEC. 60. In pleading the performance of conditions
recedent in a contract, it shall not be necessary to state the
ts showing such performance; but it may be stated generally
that the party duly performed all the conditions on his part;

establish on the trial the facts showing suc

NINETEENTH SESSION. 27

and if such allegation be controverted,.the party leading shall
pe ormance.

SEC. 61. In leadin a private statute, or a right derived
therefrom, it" shalfbee su cient to refer to such statue by its mm,
title and the day of its passage, _and the Court shall thereupon 8t=t“*°°-
take 'udicial notice thereof. .

EC. 62. In an action for libel or slander, it shall not be
necessary to_state in the complaint any extrinsic facts for the

urpose of showing the application to the plaintiff of the de- ggg°,;m<_>r,n

amatory matter out of which the action arose; -but it shall be action for.
sufficient to state generally that the same was published, or
spoken, concernin ‘the plaintiff; and if such alle ation be
controverted, ‘ the p aintiif shallestablish on the trial t at it was °
so published or spoken. ' g ' '. ' - “

SEC. 63. In the actions mentioned’ in the last Section, the
defendant may’, in his answer, allege both“ the truth of the Tmh my 1,,
matter charged as defamatory; and any mitigatin 6 circum- °11°8°d~
stances to reduce the amount of damages; and, w ether he
prove the justification’ or not,‘ he may give in evidence ' the
mitigating circumstances. ' ‘ '_ . * . ' ' -

SEC. 64. The’ plaintiff may unite several causes of action
in the same complaint, when ‘they all arise out of: First-

Contracts express or implied; or: Second———Claims to recover seven; causa-
specific real property, wlth or without “damages, for the with- gf,§§f,‘;’,‘;,°l,‘,‘,‘,,,
holding hereof, or for_ waste committed thereon, andthe rents
and profits of the same; or: Third-—Claims to recover speciiic
personal ropert , with or without damage, for the withhold-
1ng thereo ; or: ou'rth—Claims against trustee, by virtue of a
contract, or b operation of law; or: Fifth—.— Injuries to
character -or: ‘ ixth—-Injuries to person; or: Seventh—.—Injuries
to property. But the causes of action so united shall all belong
to only one of these classes, and shall affect all the arties to
the action, and not-nequire different places of trial, an shall be
separately stated ;; rovided, however, that an action for
malicious arrest an prosecution, or either of them, may be
united with an action for either injury to character or to the
person.: , , - 6

. SEC. 65. Every material allegation of the complaint,
when it is veriiied, not specifically controverted by the answer, ggggatggggu
shall for the purpose of the action be taken as ‘true. The true-
allegation of new matter in the answer, shall on the trial be
deemed controverted by the adverse party.

. SEC. 66. A material allegation in a pleading is one mteml
essential to the claim, or defense, and which cou d
stricken from the ‘pleading without leaving it insuflicient.

SEC. 67. After demurrer, and before the trial of ./issue on

"demurrer, either (party may,’ within ten days, amend any

pleading demurre to, of course, and without costs, filing the
same as amended, and serving a copy thereof upon the adverse Answer after
arty or his attorney, who shall have ten days »_to answer or “°‘““"°"'
emur thereto. if the pleading be a com laint, or to demur '
thereto if it be-ananswer; but a party shal not so damen more
than once. When a demuner to a complaint is overruled, and

not be allegations. 6

28. LAVVS OF UTAH.

there is no answer filed, the Court may, upon such terms as
shall be just, and u on ayment of costs, allow t-hedefendant
to file an answer. i‘ a emurrer to the _answer be overruled,
the faicts alleged in the answer shall still be considered as
denie .

SEC. 68. The Court may, in furtherance of justice, and
on such terms as may be prloper, amend any pleading or pro-
ceedings by adding or stn "ng out the name of any party, or
by correcting a mistake in the name of the party, or a mistake

§fmel,,2,1,,,,g§. pi an other respect, agd may up)ondlike termts enlarge the
P imc or an answer or emurrer r emurrer 0 an answer
filed. The Court may likewise, upon affidavit showing good

cause. therefor, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon

such terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or
proceeding in other particulars, and_ may upon likc_ terms

allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this Act,

and may, upon such terms as may be just, and upon pay-

ment of costs, relieve a party or his legal re resentatives from

a judgment, order or other proceeding ta_ en against him

through his mistake, inadvertence,‘ surprise or excusable

neglect; and when, from any cause, the summons and a copy

of the complaint in an action have not been personally served

on the defendant, the Court may allow, on such terms as may

be just, such defendant or his legal_ i.'epresentati_ves, at any

.£n,,;,v.,efro, tlIn(131VVllél_l1I1 stix montlistsfgir $3 r1i‘i3E1"1(3}t1tO111 of ‘any udgment in

, - suc ac ion, 0 answer e 1e rigina. ac -1011.
SEC. 69. \Vhen the plaintiff is ignorant of the name of a
defendant, such defendant may be designated in any pleading
f.’,,",‘,‘,,”('j¥‘ ‘3'°°' or proceeding by ‘any name, and when his true name is dis-
defendant‘-S covered the pleading or proceeding may be amended accord-
"W" ingly. ,
SEC. 70. In the construction of a pleading for the pur-
P,e,',d,,,g,, pose of determining its effect, its allegations shall be liberally
,1;t<mec5>n- construed, with a view to substantial justice between the
‘ T ‘ parties.
SEC. '71. The Court shall in ever stage of an action dis-
Error whenm regard aniy errorffor defect tin the lp eadings or proceedings,
beaiséezarded which slia 1 not a ect the su stantia rights o the parties and
no judgment shall be reversed or affected by reason of ’such
error or defect.

TITLE V.

Of the Provisional Remedies in Givil Actions.
-CHAPTER 1.—-ARREST AND BAIL. ,

SEC. 72. No erson shall be arrested in a civil action
exce tas prescribe b this Act.

‘no. '73. The de endant may be arrested, as hereinafter
prescribed, in the following cases arising after the passage of
this Act: First—-In an action for the recovery of money or

Arrest - damages on a cause of action arising upon contract, express or
implied, when the defendant is about to depart from the Terri-

NINE’.1‘EENTII snssrox. 29

tory with intent to defraud his creditors, or when the action is
for libel or slander. Second-In an action for a fine or Whgg may be
penalty, or formoney or property embezzled, or fraudulently ma '
misap lied or converted to his own use by a public officer, or
an o cer of a corporation, or an attorney, factor, broker, T
agent or clerk, in the course of his‘ employment as such, or
by a11y other person in a fiduciary capacity or for misconduct
or neglect in oflice, ‘or in a professional employment, or for a
wilful violation of duty. ’l‘hird—In an action to recoverthe
possession of personal property unjustly detained, when the
roperty or any part thereof has been concealed, removed or
isposed of, so that it cannot be found or taken by the
Territorial Marshal, his de uty, or the Sherritf, or his deputy.
Fourth-——-VVhen the defen‘ ant has been guilty of a fraud in '
contracting the debt or incurring the obligationrfor which the
action is brought, or in concealing or disposing of the
property, for the taking, detention or conversion of which the
action is brought. Fifth-—-.\Vhen the defendant has removed
or ‘disposed of his property, or is about to do so, with the
intent to defraud his creditors.. ‘
SEC. 74. An order for the arrest of the defendant shall 0,§<t1g»h,§>_w
be obtained from a Judge of the Court in which the action is ° -1”
brought. _ V .' V T .
SEC. 75. The order maybe made whenever itshall appear
to the Judge, by the affidavit of the plaintiff or some other
person, that a sufficient cause of action exists, and the case is
one of those mentioned in Section «.Seventy-Three. The Same’
affidavit shall be either positive or upon information‘ and
belief; and when u’ on information and belief, it shall state
the facts upon whic 1 the information and belief are founded.
If an order of arrest be made, the affidavit shall be tiled with
the Clerk of the Court. .
SEC. 76. Before making. the order t-he judge shall
require a written undertaking, on the art of the plaintiff,
with sureties, to the eifect that if the de endant recover judg- P1,,,,,m,o
ment, the plaintiff will pay all costs and charges" that may be gg3;under-
awarded to the defendant, and all damages which he may “'
sustain « by reason of the" arrest, not exceeding the some
specified in the undertaking," -which shall be at least ‘five .
hundred dollars. Each of the sureties shall annex, to the
undertaking an affidavit. that he is a resident and _house-
holder or freeholder within the Territory and worth double A
the sum specified in the uindertaking over and’ above all  :
debts and liabilities, exclusive of, property‘ exempt from
execution._ The undertaking shall be filed with the Clerk of
the'Court.?_ T  ',.  it ' e  ~_ ', T ,
SEC. ‘77. The order may’ be made to accompany the when Order
summons, or any time afterwards before judgment. A t shall may be
require the Territorial" Marshal, his de uty, the S.heri1i' of the made’ f_°""'
County, or his deputy, wl1’ere‘-thee de endant "may ‘be found,‘ "
forthwith to arrest him and”hold him to bail in a specihed‘.
sum; and to return the ,order'at the time therein’ mentioned to
-the Clerk of tl1e'Co11rt'i1i)'wliic11‘ the action is pending.',,”

‘0l.'1i8rv duty

of Sheri!-

Lxws or UTAH.

SEC. 78. The order of arrest, with a copy of the afiidavit
u on which it is made, shall be delivered to the Sherid‘, or
ot er ofhcer, who, uplon arresting the defendant, shall deliver
to him_the copy of t e affidavit, and also if _desired a copy of
the order of arrest. .

SEC. 79. The Sheriff, or other Oflicer, shall execute the

30'' °I°°ut°d order by arresting the defendant and keeping him in custody

Defendant.

how dis-
’ charged.

, ‘Bail, how

‘given

“Surrender.

‘Ma. arrest
~de endant.

§L‘2$‘€“"

How exone-

.-rated.

Proceedings
after arrest.

until discharged by law.

SEC. 80. The defendant, at any time before execution,
shall be discharged from the arrest either upon givin bail or
u on depositing the amount of money mentioned in t e order
0 arrest, as provided in this Chapter.

SEC. 81. The defendant ma give_bail by causing a writ-
ten undertakin , as directed byt e Judge, to be executed by
two or more su cient sureties, stating their places of residence
and occu ations, to the effect that they are bound in the amount
mentione in the order of arrest; that the defendant shall at all
times render himself amenable to the rocess, of the Court
durin the endency of the action, an to .such as may be
issue to en orce the judgment therein; or that they will pay
to the plaintiff the amount of any judgment, which may be
recovered in the action.

SEC. 82. At any time before jud ment, or within ten
days thereafter, the bail may surrender t e defendant in their
exoneration; or he may surrender himself to the Sheriff, or
other ofiicer of the Court, where he was arrested.

SEO. 83. For the purpose of surrendering the defendant,
the bail, at. any time or place before they are hnally charged,
may themselves arrest mm; or by a written. authority, indorsed
on a certified copy of the undertaking, may em ower the.
Territorial Marshal, or the Sheriff to do so. Upon t e arrest of
the defendant by said officer, or upon his. delivery to him by
the bail, orupon his own surrender, the. bail_ shall be exoner-
ated, provided, such arrest, delivery or. surrender take place
before the expiration of ten daysafter judgment, but if such
arrest, delivery or surrender be not made within ten days after
judgment, the bail shall be; finally.’ charged on their under-
taking, and ‘be.’ bound . to pay the .amount of . the judgment
within ten days’ thereafter. t  . . _;_ _ .

SEO. 84. If the bail neglect; or refuseto gay the judgment
within ten days after they are finally charge ,,an action may
be commenced. against‘ such bail for, the amount of such
original judgment. ’ ... ,  _  _ ,

SEC. 85. The bail shall also be. exonerated by the death
of the defendant, or his "imprisonment in the Pemtentiary, or
by his legal discharge from the obligation to render himself
amenable to the rocess- - l  . . .

SEO. 86.‘ ' .ithin the time limited for that purpose, the
Territorial Marshal, or Sheriff, shall file the order of arrest in
the ofhce of the Clerk of the Court in which the action is
pending, with his return indorsed thereon, to ther with a copy
of the undertaking of the bail. The origina undertaking he
shall retain in his possession until filed, as herein provided.

a

NINETEENTH SESSION. 31 .

The plaintiff within ten days thereafter may serve upon the
omcer a notice that he does not accept the bail, or he shall be

deemed to have acce ted them, and the ofhcer shall be exoner- '

ated from liability. f no notice be served within ten days;
the original undertaking shall be filed with the Clerk of the
Court. ‘ '

SEC. 87. Within five days after the receipt of notice, the
Territorial Marshal, or Sheri , or defendant may 've to the

plaintiff, or his attorney, notice of the justification o the same, fufggleggon

or other bail, (specifying the laces of residence and .occupa- of bail. ‘ A

tions of the latter) before the udge of the Court, or Clerk, at
a. specified time and place; the time to be not less than five nor
more than ten days thereafter, exce t by consent of arties.
In case‘ other bail be given, there shal be a new underta 'ng.

SEO. 88. The qualifications of bail shall be as follows:
First—Each of them shall be a resident, and householder, or
freeholder, within the county. Second-—Each shall be worth Q M ti "3
the amount s ecified in the order of "arrest, or the amount to of” ba11.°° 0
which the 0 er is reduced, as provided in this Chapter, over
and above all his debts and liabilities, exclusive of property
exempt from execution; but the Judge or Clerk, on justification ,
may allow more than two sureties to justify severally in
amounts less than that expressed in the order, if the whole
justiiication be equivalent to that of two sufficient bail. _

SEC. 89'; For the purpose of justincation, each of the h
bail shall attend before the Jud e, or Clerk, at the time and '?'{g§};’1:y?'t°
place mentioned in thenotice, an may be examined on oath,
on the part of the laintiff, touching‘h_is suiiiciency, in , such
manner as the J u _ ge or Clerk in his discretion may think
proper. The examination shall be reduced to writing, and .
subscribed by the bail if requiredby the laintiff; ‘ j * _ A

SEC. 90. ‘If the udge, or C1erk,fin the bail sufficient, Ana 1

‘ he shall annex the examination to the‘ undertaking, indorse ba11.""°°°
his allowance thereon, and cause them to be filed, and the oilicer
shall thereupon be exonerated from liability. .

SEC. 91. The defendant pma , at the time of his arrest,
instead of giving" bail,~deposit wit the Territorial Marshal or
Sheriff, the amount mentioned in the, order. In case the De . 1,, 1,9,,
amount of the bail be reduced, as provided in this Chapter, 01' 1-
the defendant may deposit _such amount instead of giving
bail. -_ In either case the officer shallgive the defendant a cer-
tificate of the deposit made, and the defendant shall be dis-_ '

char ed from .custo_d . 1 _ j ‘ . H

EC. 92. The erritolial Marshal, or. ‘Sheriff, shall imme-
diately after the deposit‘. pay the same into. Court, and take  ¢
from the Clerk receivin ‘the same two certificates of. ‘such °°P°°“' ‘.
payment; the oneof whic he shall‘ deliver "or transmitto the’
plaintiif, or his attorney,‘ and the other to the defendant. i For
any default in making such (payment, the same‘ roceedings
may be had on the official bon of the onicer to co ect the sum ‘
deposited as in other cases of delinquency. _

SEC. 93. If money ‘be deposited, as provided in the B31! after

last two sections, bail may be given‘, and may justify upon ‘°’°""'

32 LAWS on UTAH.

notice at any time before judgment; and on the filing of the

' undertaking and justification with the Clerk, the money
deposited shall be refunded by such Clerk to the defendant.
SEC. 94. \Vhere money shall. have been deposited, if it

Application of remain on deposit at the time of a recovery of a judgment in

,de it after favor of the plaintiff, the Clerk shall, under the direction of

3 ‘mm’ the Court, apply the same in satisfaction thereof, and after
satisfying the judgment shall refund the surplus, if any, to
the defendant. If the judgment be in favor of the defendant,

.. ~ the Clerk shall, under like direction of the Court, refund to

him the whole sum de osited and remaining unapplied.
SEC. 95. If after ing arrested, the defendant escape or
be rescued, the Territorial Marshal, or other officer, shall him-

. Liability or self be liable as bail; but he may discharge himself from such

8"°"“" liability by the giving and justification of bail at any time
before judgment. .
SEC. 96. If a judgment be recovered against the Territo-
rial Marshal, or other officer, upon his liabilit as bail and an
Ju ent ° ' - y ,-
gga execution thereon be returned unsatisfied, in whole or in part,
6113- the same proceedings may be had on his official bond for the
aeciciwery of the whole or any deiic1ency‘,.as in. other cases of
e nquencv.
SEC. 97. A defendant arrested may, at any time before»
the justification of bail, apply to the Judge who made the
Vr%cat:h%g the order, or the Court in which the action is pending, upon
2338 reasonable notice to the pla1nt1_fI', to vacate the_ order of arrest,
or to reduce the amount of ball. If the ap hcation be. made
upon affidavits on-the part of the defenda.nt,B11t not otherwise,
the laintiff may oppose the same bv amdavits or other proofs
in dition to those on which the order of arrest was made.
SEC‘. 98. If upon such aphplication it shall satisfactorily
ap earthat there was not su cient cause for the arrest, the
or er shall be vacated, or if it satisfactorily a pear that the’

bail was fixed too high, the amount shall be re Iced.

iiuetiuction of

CIL;&PTER 2. — CLAIMS AND DELIVERY OF PERSONAL
.. PROPERTY.

1 SEC. 99. The plaintiff in an action to recover the posses-
L'.3’,‘3“;,Z?I.1’§.°de. sion of. personal property, may, at the time of issuing the
summons, or at anytime before answer, claim the delivery of

such property to him as provided in this Chapter.
SEC. 100. VVhere a delivery is claimed, an affidavit shall
Amdmtto be made. by the plaintiff, orb. some one on his behalf, showing:
3},’§§,1§]fv’§,S‘;'_ First—That the plaintiff is t e owner of the property claimed,
(particulary describing it) or is lawfully entitled to. the sses-
sion" thereof. Second—Thatv the pro ertv ,is wrongf ly ; de-_
tained -by the defendant. Third—T e alle ed cause of the
detention-thereof according to his best know edge, information
and belief. Fourth—That the same has not been taken for a
tax, assessment or fine, pursuant to a statute, or seized under
an execution or an at-tacliment against the property of the

 TH SESSION. _ ~33

plaintiff, or, if so Seized, thatit is by statute exempt from such
seizure; and, Fifth—The actual value of the property.
SEC. 101. The plaintijf or his attorney, may thereupon,
by endorsement in writing upon the afiidavit, require the mmm,
Territorial Marshal, or the Sheriff of the County, where the
property claimed may be, to take the same from the defendant.
SEC. 102. Upon a receipt of the afiidavit and notice, with
a written undertaking, executed by two or more suflicient
sureties, approved by the Territorial Marshal, or Sheriff, to the
effect that they are bound to the defendant in double the value
of the property, as stated in the afiidavitfor the rosecution of
the actlon, for the return of the property to the efendants, if
return thereof be adjudged, and for the payment to him of
such sum as may from any cause be recovered against the
plaintiff, the Territorial Marshal, or other ‘ofiicer, shall forth-
with take the propert described in the affidavit, if it be in the
possession of the de endant or his agent, and retain it in his
custody. He shall also, without delay, serve on the defendant
a copy of the aflidavit, notice and undertaking, by delivering
the same to him personally if he can be found, or to his agent,
from whose possession the propert is taken: or, if neither can
be found, by leaving‘ them at‘ t e usual lace of abode of
either, with some Ealrson of suitable age an discretion; or if
neither have any own place of abode, by putting them in
the nearest Post Odice gpost paid), directed to the defendant.
SEC. 103. The de ‘endant may, within two days after the
service of a copy of -the aflidavit and the‘ undertaking, give sum”, 6,,
notice to the Territorial Marshal, his deputy, the Sheriff of the cepttnsto.
County, or his de uty, that he excepts to the3sutiiciency of the
sureties. If he ails to do so, he shall be deemed to have '
waived all objection to them. When the defendant exce ts,
the sureties shall justify on notice in like manner as upon ail
on arrest; and the Territorial Marshal, his deputy, the Sheriff
of the County, or his ' deputy; shall» be responsible for the
sufficiency of the sureties until the objection to’ them is either
waived, as above provided, -or‘ until they justify. If the
defendant exce t to the sureties, he cannot reclalm the pro-
perty, as provi ed in the next Section. ‘ ,
SEC. 104. At any time ‘before the delivery of the property
_to the plaintiff, the defendant may, if he do not except to the
sureties of the plaintiff, re uire the return thereof, upon ‘giving Defend.“
to the Territorial Marsh , his 1 deputy, the Shenif of the ,'3';,,:,’,',.’,‘,_°‘1""°
County, or‘ his deputy, a written undertaking, executed by
two or more suihcient sureties, to the effect thatthey are bound
in double the value of the property, as stated in. the affidavit
of the plaintiff, for-the delivery thereof to the plaintiff, if such
delivery be adjudged, and for the payment to him of such
sum as may-for any cause be recovered against the defendant.
If a return of the roperty be not required within five days
after the taking an serving of notice to the defendant, it shall
be delivered to the plaintiff, except as provided in Section One
Hundred and Nine. _ ' ‘
SEC. 105. The defendant’s sureties, upon notice to the
C 0

Proceedings
on.

34 T mws or UTAB.

g 5 plaintiff of not less than two or more than five days, shall
suretles. Justify before the Judge or the Clerk, in the same manner as
u n bail on arrest; and upon such justification the Territorial.
arshal, or the Sheriff of the County, shall deliver the pro-
rty to the defendant. The Territorial Marshal, or the
heritf of the County, shall be responsible for the defendant’s
sureties until tlsigly justify, or until the justification is com- A
pleted or e re y waived, and may retain thfeljpmperty until 1
that time. they, or others in theili-aglace, to justify at
the time antdfplace appointed, he s deliver the property
to the plain ’ .

, SEC. 106. The qualification of sureties and their ju stin-
Qualmcation cation shall be such as are prescribed by this Act in respect to
°““'°"°" bail upon an order of arrest. '

SEC. 107. If the property, or any part thereof, be con-
?” cealed in a building or enclosure, the Territorial Marshal, or
Congas]. the Sheriff of the County, shall publicly’ demand its delivery.
‘If it be not delivered; he shall cause the building or enclosure
to be broken open, and take the  into his possession;
‘ ad if necessary, he may call 0 ' aid the power of the
unty.
h  t108.halVlV1l1i§ii_ thj3{Teriitoriallt Marshal , lclr (gilt: Sheriff of
te uny,s ve enprope y,asint ‘s ater ro-
i»nr‘oe§e$t*i9-keep vided, he shall keep it in a secure place, and deliverlit tollhe
party entitled thereto upon receiving his lawful fees for taking
and necessary e uses for kee ing the same.
SEC. 109. the roperty en be claimed by any other
Proceedings person than the defen ant or his agent, and such person make
E';}.'f,§‘,.?,’5°;,‘;.°"’ adidavit of his title thereto, or right to possession thereof,
°“‘°’P°"‘°“' stating the grounds of such title or ' ht, and serve the same
upon the Territorial Marshal, or the S eriff of the County, the
Territorial Marshal, or the Sheriff of the County, shall not be
‘bound to keep the property or deliver it to the plaintiff, unless
the plaintiff on demand of him or his agent, indemnify the
Territorial Marshal, or the Sheriif of the County, against such
claim by an undertaking, by two sumcient sureties, accompa-
nied by their aflidavits, that the are each worth double the
value of the giro rty as specific in the aflidavit of the plain-
tiff, over an ve their debts and liabilities, exclusive of
pro rty exem t from execution , and are freeholders or house-
01 ers in the , unt ;and no claim to such pro rt by any
other person than t e defendant. or his agent s be valid
against the Territorial Marshal, ‘or the Sheriff of the County,
unless so -made. .
Nome, ,,c_, ,0 SEO‘. .110. The Territorial Marshal, or the Sherif of the
b°*11°d- County, shall file the notice, undertaking: or ‘affidavit, with
his proceedings thereon, with the ‘ Clerk of the Court in which
the action is ndin , within twenty days after taking the
property men oned t erein. n ~ '

0 CHAPTER 3.-—1xmmmoN.
SEC. 111. An injunction ‘is a writ or order requiring a

NINETEENTH sEssIoN. 35

rson ‘to refrain from a-particular act. The order or writ may {,6 meg?“
granted by the Court in which the action is brought, or by
a Judge thereof, and, when made by" a Judge, may be
enforced as the ‘order of the Court. ' ’ ’
- -. SEC. 112. An injunctien may be granted» in the following
cases: First——When it shall aptpear by the complaint that the
plaintiff is entitled to the relie demanded, and such relief or
any part thereof consists in restraining the commission or },',’,;'§g** “*3 ‘’
continuance :of the act complained of, either for a limited muted.
period or perpetually. Second—When it shall appear by the
complaint or aiiidavit that the commission or continuance of
some act, during the litigation, would produce great" or irre-
parable injury to the plaintiff. Third--When it shall appear,
uring the litigation, that the defendant is doing, or threatens,
or is about to do or is procuring’ or suffering to bedone,
some act in violation of the plaintiii"s rights respecting the ‘
sub'ect of the action, and tending -to render the judgment
ine ectual. l — r
SEC. 113. The injunction may be granted at the time of ~
issuing the summons upon the conéplaint, and at i any time
afterwards, before judgment-, upon a davits or other evidence. Whegedmay be
The complaint in the one case, and the affidavits or other mu '
evidence 1n the other, shall show satisfactorily that sufficient

grounds exist therefor. No in’unction shall be nted on the

' complaint, unless it be verifie by the . oath of t e plaintiff, or

some one in his behalf, that he, the rson making the oath,
has read the complaint or heard e complaint read, and
knows the contents thereof, and the same is true, of his own
knowledge, except the ‘matters therein stated on ‘ information
and belief, and that as to those matters he believes ~it»to be
true. When granted on the com laint, a copy of the com-
plaint and veri’dcation’attached sh be served with the injunc-
tion: when granted upon aiiidavit, without notice, a copy of
the aflidavit shall be served with the injunction. T

SEC. 114. An injunction shall not be allowed after the
defendanthas answered unless u on notice, or upon an order

made as provided in ‘Section One - undred and Sixteen, but in 41”’ ““'°'~ ‘

such case the defendant may be restrained -until the decision
of ‘the Court or Judge grantingoor refusing the injunction._

SEC. .115. On granting an injunction, or a restraining
order, the Court or Judge shall “require, «except where the
Territo , a County, or a City is a party laintiif, a written
underta 'ng, with sumcient s'ureties,; to t ‘e effect that the
plaintiff ‘will pay to the party enjoined such damages, not C
exceeding an amount to‘ be *' specified, ' as such party may
sustain by reason of the injunction, if the Court finally decide
that the plaintiif was not entitled thereto. ‘E . 

SEC. -116. If the Court or Judge deem i re r that the
defendant, or any of several defendants, should be Ecgard before om, of hm.
granting the injunction, anzorder shall be -made fixing a time ‘"3-
and lace for hearin the aPP]1'Jcation for the injunction,-a copy
of w ‘ch order sh be served 11 n the person or persons

Undertaking.

_ designated therein, and the defen ant may in the meantime

36 H . LAWS or UTAH. .

be restrained. Upon the hearing, the parties may use adidavits,
otherwritten evidence and oral testimony.
SEC. 117. An injunction or restraining order to sue nd
Injunction to the general and ordinary business of a corporation sh not
31339031 bust be granted without due notice of the application. therefor, to
corporation. be servedin the manner prescribed‘ for service of the summons
in the action. - .. J 1
SEC. 118. If an -injunction be granted without notice, the
defendant at any time before the trial, may apply, upon
' reasonable notice, to the Judge who granted the injunction,
nononn, _ or to the ' Court in which the action is ‘ nding, or a Judge
$39311}; °’ thereof, to dissolve or modify the same. %‘ehe application may
be made‘ upon ' the complaint and the affidavit, or afhdavits,
on which the~;injuncti'on was.’ granted, if any were .used, or
r upon. aflidavits or other testimony on the part of the defendant,
° with-or without the answer. If the apphcation be made u n
affidavit, ‘or other evidence, on the part of the defendant, ut
not otherwise, the plaintiff may oppose the same by affidavits
or other evidence in addition ' to ‘the aiiidavits on which the
injunction was granted, and the defendant ma then in pro 1-
eneeg introduce rebuttingaiiidavits or other evi ence:p1'ovz' d,
that pr the purpose of allowing the plaintiff to introduce
further evidence, the answer or veriiication thereto attached
3113,11 be deemed an affidavit. ' ' .
sne,.11,). The Courts {may prescribe b rule the time
when, and the cases in ‘which, the service 0 affidavits to be

0
l

‘ Court to need npen an hcations for injunctions, and motionsto dissolve

¥{{1°3'§,”&b§. injunctions, 3 an be made; and may also provide b rule for
o

the givin of notice before such hearin s, the kin of testi-
mony to e used, and II_ia.ke.al1 needfu rules on the subject of
injunctions not in conilict With th1_S.Or 0the_l’ Acts-_ _ .

SEC. 120.' If upon the. hearing of an application for an
injunction, or for the dissolution of an injunction, it does not

_ Injunction satisfactorily a pear that there is a suflicieht -' cause for an

maybe & injunction, or i it appear that»: the’ extent’ of .'the. injunction is
"°‘“°°"’ °' too great, it shall -be refused-,. dissolved or modified, as the case
maybe, and upon all such applications in actions respecting
mines, the Oourt,._or J udge_ hearing. the same, ma , instead of
granting or continuing the injunction, make an-o er_ requiring
the party against whom the a ghcation ismade,  ve a bond
in an amount ‘fixed bar such‘. ourt ‘or Judge, wit sufiicient
sureties, to be alpprove by such; Court or J udge, <?0n‘.ht1°n9d
for the- ayment to the plaintiff, of  damafges which he may
sustain y reason of the use orpccupationo the mine, or other
acts complained . Of,'1iyl}1_1e' part -givingtltihe b0Dda§‘1:3 ‘E 8138
agents ‘servan s‘ emp eyes _g_ran_ es -0_1‘ 0 61‘-P9!-‘SOD, _. _ 3' I
its consent n’d_ing. the "iIt1gatIOIl., if the j[)1a.1l1ii1§: finally
recover: or t at.‘ u on failure. to give -such bond within the
time prescribed in t eorder, the injunction shalhbe granted, or
continued, as the case may be; .or.the Court or «Judge, may
a, point a receiver, -totalie charge of the mine, or-:the pnoceeds

t ereof, pendin the litigation. : i~ — _t _.
SEC. 121. t shall be good cause in the discretion of‘ the

NINETEENTH sEssIoN. 37

Court, or Judge, for thedissol-.ution of an injunction that the gfglggig Of
plaintiff is doing, or causin , or permitting to be done, some 0 ‘
acts 11ding the liti ation w ‘ch, if continued, will be injurious

to t e defendant i he iinall recover, or- to the property in

dispute. But the Court, or J 11 ge, hearing a motion to dissolve

an Injunction, may instead of granting such motion‘, direct by

order that the plaintiff‘ 've to the arties restrained a bond
conditioned, as provide in Section ne Hundred and Twenty,

or upon his failure to do so, within the time prescribed in such

order, that the injunction shall be dissolved. ‘ l

' CHAPTER 4.—A.'1"rncHMENr. .

SEC. 122. The plaintiff, at the time of issuing the sum-
mons, or ' at any time afterwards,.may have the property of
the defendant attached, as security’ for the satisfaction of any
judgment that may be recovered, unless the defendant give
security to pay such judgment, as hereinafter provided in the -
followin cases: In an action u on a contract, which is not
secured y mort age, lien or -ed e upon real or personal
property, situate or being in t ‘s erritory, or, if so secured,
when such security has been rendered nugatory by the act of
the defendant, against a defendant not residing in this Terri-
tory, or ainst a person who has departed or is about to depart
from the erritory or County wherein the action is brought, or
who stands in‘ defiance of an officer, or conceals himself so that
process cannot be served on him, or who is disposing of his
property with intentjto defraud his‘ creditors. ’ *

’ SEC: 123. The Clerk of the Court‘ shall issue the writ of
iattachnrent upon ‘receivin an affidavit by or on‘ behalf of the iWrigdhow
plaintiff, ‘which, shall "be ed, showing: that the defendant is 58“ '
indebted tosthe plaintiff upon a contract," specifying the nature
and amount thereof as near as ma be over and above all legal
set’-offs “or counter claims, and t at the same’ has not been
secured by any mort age, lien or pledge upon real or personal
property situate or eing in tl11s Territory, or, if so secured,
that sald security has been rendered nugatory by the act of
the defendant; and that the sa.me is an actual, 'bona flde,
existing demand, due and owing from the defendant to the
plaintiff, and that the attachment is not sought. and the
action is not prosecuted to hinder, delay ‘or defraud any
creditor of the defendant, and specifying one or more of the
causes set forth in the preceding Section. ' ' . .

SEC. 124.’ Before issuing the writ the Clerk shall require

a written undertaking on the part of the plaintifI_',‘in a sum not ~
less than two hundred dollars, nor exceeding, the amount Undertaking
claimed bythe plaintiff, with sudicient sureties, to the effect required‘
that if the defendant recover judgment, the plaintiff will pay
all "costs" that may be awarded to the de endant, and all
damages which he may sustain by reason of the attachment,
not exceeding the sum specified in the undertaking. -
' SEC. 125. The writ shall be directed to the Territorial

Marshal, his deputy, or the Sheriff of any County, in which

Attachment.

33 . ‘ LAWS or UTAH.

‘gegggmwt gttgtiglairtzngf szigil} (li{eeet:e1I>1da2.1lIllttl]i!e:ayrob1(i?ert;n(<1)f rSe1(11tg11r£(’1efeI1d.alt1(’)t
within the County not. exempt _ in execution, or so much
thereof as may be sudicient to satisfy the p1aintiff_’s de_ma.nd,
the amount of which shall be  moconformity with the
complaint, unless the defendant . give him security by the
undertaking, of at least two, sufficient _ sureties, in an amount
sufficient to satisfy such demand, besides cost, in which case
to take such undertaking. Several writs may be issued at the
same time to the Territorial Marshal, his deputy, or the Sheriffs
of different Counties.’ _

mm mm’ SEC. 126. The rights or shares which the defendant may

may 1% have in the stock of any co ration or com any, together

‘“‘°"°°' with the interest and roiits t erein, and _all ebts due such

. defendant, and all ot er property_ in this Temtory of such
defeiadant nolt) exempt  exggutioon, éngytge .at(t1achedt,; ang
if ju gment _ e recoveie , so sa s y e J11 gmen an
execution.

SEC. 127. The Territorial Marshal, his deputy,‘ the Sheriff
of the County, or his deputy, to whom the writ is directed and
delivered shall execute. the same without delay, and if the
undertaking mentioned in Section One Hundred and Twent -

How mt six be not given-_—-as follows; First—Rea1 property shall

should be attached by leavin a copy of the writ with the occupant

°‘°°“‘°d‘ thereof; or if there no occupant, by posting a copy _in a 1
conspicuous lace thereon, and filing a co y, together with a ,
description 0 the property attached, with t e Recorder of the 1

 §:°%t%§§“£”€atP”€f-“{  °f  gas;
er s a e a n 1 in ocus . — 1
oryshares, or interest inyStock %r shares, of _a)ny corporation or *
com any, shall be attached b leaving with the_ President,
or ot er head of the same, or t e Secretary, Cashier, or Man-
aging Algent t1t1:1‘e()tf, étttifpg gt‘ tihe tV5:l'1t,t€I£:% 3 notice stating 1
the stoc or in res o e e en an is a e in pursuance
of such writ. Fourth—Debts and credits, and other personal

roperty, not capable of manual dehvery, shall be attached by
leaving with the erson owin such debts, or having in his
possession, or un er his contro , such credits or other personal

ro erty, a copy of the writ, and a notice that the debts owin

, By giim to the defendant, or the credits or other perso

property in his possession or under his control belonging to
the defendant, are attached in pursuance of. such_ writ.

SEC. 128. Upon receiving information in writing from_the

I," It in plaintiff or _his attorney, that any person has in his ossession,

530 other or under his control, any C1‘9dltS or other erson pro rt
belongin to the defendant, or is owing any ebt tothe de en -
ant, the erritorial Marshal, or the Sheriff of the County, shall
serve upon such person a copy of the writ, and a notice that
such credits, or other property or debts, as the case may be,
are attached in pursuance of such_  _ _

SEC. 129. All persons having in their possession, or

Ltigbility of ,under their control, any credits or other ersonal pro ert

° er "mm belonging to the defendant, or owing any de ts to the de en -

..-u

NINETEENTH SESSION. 39

ant_a.t the time of service upon them of a copy of the writ and
notlce, as provided in the two last Sections, Shall be, unless
811911 p rt is delivered u or transferred, or such debts be
_a1d to t e erritorial Mars al, or the Sheriff of the County,
able to theplaintiff for the amount of such credits, property
or debts ,11:1L)nt1l1utheba‘.3ttachII1'i1e‘111t be discharged, or any judgment
recovere y ‘m satis ‘e .

_SEC. 130. Any person owing debts to the defendant, or
havmg in his possession or under his control any credits or A
other personal pro erty, belonging to the defendant, may be Examination.
required to attend fore the Court, or Judge, or a referee ap-
pomted by the Court, or Judge, and be examined on oath
Ztgpggmgg tihle same. Thef defendant fmay also be 

r epu oseo v1n mormaonre c s
propert , and may examiged o§1 oath. The CourstI,)?)r J ugdge,
Etaiaai '23 %“‘§‘ °”?é3§.?“3f’ii °“?f£‘~i’§°”$‘ 1°-’t3"-Z’f’1»i’2%"ta‘1°

u eve evere ,eerr1r1 s ,

or the Sheriff of rtyhe County, on such terms as may be just,

having reference to an liens thereon or claims against the

Same, and a memorandyum to be given of all other personal
property, containing the amount and description thereof.

S130. 131. The Temtonal Marshal, or the Shenff of the
County shall make a full inventory of the property attached,
§33h’er'é1‘u’¥n‘§‘Z$€.3"$e£{é"2n3h§r$% at?.°c1f§‘.i‘”1‘1°e ;"t";£u?.q‘1‘;2§? “°°"“m.°‘

9 7 '
at the time of service, the part owing the debt, or having the
credit, to give him a’ memoran um stating the amount and de-
Scr1 tron of each; and if such memorandum be refused, he
sh return the fact of refusal with the writ. The party re-
fusing to give the memorandum, may be required to pay the
costs of any proceeding, taken for the purpose of obta1 '
:;1f;)€'matio1(;i:'especting the amount and description of suc
e or cre . '
, SE0. 132. If any of the property attached be perishable,
the Territorial Marshal, or the Sheriff of the County, shall sell
the same in the manner in which such property is sold on
' elxecution. The roceeds and other property attached by him  1&
s allbe retained him, to answer an 'ud ent that ma non.
be recovered in the action, unless soon§rJsub%<IaI<l3t to executing
iriponttaénpltlllier £ju]d)egi)nent iecowéered regigus to the ilslsuing bof
ea en. tsan cre 'tsa c e ma" eco ecte
him, if the same can be done without suit. T e recei t of th)e
Territorial Marshal, or the Sheriff of the County, s all be a
sufficient dischar for the amount paid.
SEC. 133. I an personal pro rt attached be claimed

by a third person as ‘s property, t e erritorial Marshal, or ¢1;§°u'£°e'3"by

the Sheriff of the County, may summon a jury of six men to ““““"“"
try the validity of such claim; and such proceedings shall be
had thereon, with the like effect, as in case of a claim after
levy upon execution.
SEC. 134. If judgment be recovered by the plaintiff, -the
Territorial Marshal, or the Sheriff of the County, shall satisfy {g;‘,¢“°° ,d_

the Same out of. the property attached by him which has not

0 LAWS on UTAH.

been delivered to the defendant, or a claimant as hereinafter
provided, or subjected to execution on another judgment re-
covered revious to the issuing of the attachment, if it be
sufficient or that purpose: First——By paying to the plaintiff the
proceeds of all sales of perishable property sold by him, or of
any debts or credits collected by him, or jso much as shall be
necessa to satisfy the judgment. Second—-If any balance
remain ‘ ue, and an execution shall have been issued on the
judgment, he shall sell under the execution, so much of the

property, real or personal, as may be necessary to satisfy the».

alance, if enough -for that purpose remain in his hands.
mm, of “la Notice of the sales shall be given, and the sales conducted as
in other cases of sales on execution.

SEC. 135.‘ If, after selling all {the property attached by

him remaining in- his hands, and applym the proceeds,

g.me. together with the proceeds of any debts or cre ‘ts collected by

him, deducting the fees, to the payment of the judgment, any

balance shall remain due, the Terntorial Marshal, or the Sheriff

of the County, shall proceed to collect such balance as u on

an execution in other cases. Whenever the judgment s all

have been paid, the Territorial Marshal, or the Sheriff of the

Count , upon reasonable -demand, shall deliver over to the

defen ant the attached property remaining in his hands, and

any proceeds of the property attached unapplied on the
ju gment. ’ " z ; j‘ ‘ _

SEC. 136. If the execution’ be ‘returned unsatisfied, 1n

 _ whole or in part, the plaintiff ma prosecute any undertaking

tion returned given pursuant to Sectlon One undred and Twenty-Six, or

“""‘“°”°“‘ ection One Hundred and Forty, or’ he‘ may proceed as in other

cases upon the return of an execution. '

SEC. 137. If the defendant recover judgment acrainst‘ the
plaintiff, any undertaking received in the action, all’ the ro-
ceeds of. sales and money collected by the Territorial Mars al,

 d. or the Sheriff of the Count , and all the épro erty attached
§gg;m°g<;;f'° remainin in the hands -0 the Territori’ ’ arshal, or the
» _ Sheriff o . the County shall be delivered to the defendant or
his agent; tlie order of attachment shall be discharged andthe
r property released therefrom.

SEC. 138. Whenever the defendant shall have appeared
Dmmge or in the action, he may apply, upon «reasonable notice to the
agslaécgignggg laintitf, to. the Court in vv .'ch the action is pending, or to the
_ udge thereof, for an orderto discharge the attachment, wholly
or in part, upon the execution and filing "of the undertakin
mentioned in the next Section. Such . order’ may be grante

“directing the release from the operation of the attachment,”

' upon the filing of such undertakin and the 'ustiiication of
the sureties thereon, if required by t e plainti , of all or any
part of the property, money, debts or credits -attached as the
case may be. All the proceeds of sales and moneyscollected
by the Territorial Marshal, or the Sherilf of the County, and
.a l the pro erty attached remaining in his hands, so released,

shall be de 'vered or paid to the defendant upon" the filing of

Nmmmmn SESSION. 41

such undertaking and making such justification, if required
by the plaintiff. . . .

SEC. 139. On nting such order the Court or the Judge
shall require an un rtaking on behalf . of the defendant, with
at least two sureties, residents and freeholders or householders Undertaking
1n the County, which shall be filed to the effect in case the of defendant-."
value of the propert or the amount of money, debts orcredits

sou htto be release shallequal or exceed the amount claimed

by t e plaintiff in‘ the complaint, that the defendant will pay

. to the. la.intid'. the amount of the, judgment which ma be re-

covere in favor of the. laintiff in the action, not excee ing the
sum specified in the un ertaking, which shall be at least double
the ‘amount so claimed by the laintiff; or to the effect‘, in case
the value of the ‘roperty or t e amount of money, debts or
credits ‘sought to released shall be less than the amount so
claimed by the plaintiff, that the defendant will ‘pay the
amount of such judgment, to the extent of the value of the
propert , or amount of money, or debts or credits sought‘ to be
release , not exceeding the sum s cified, in the undertaking,
which shall be at least double t e value of such propert -,
money, debts or credits. The value of such, pro rt sought
to be released, if disputed, shall be determined y the Court
or Judge thereof, upon proof, or by a sworn appraiser, or
sworn appraisers, not exceeding three, to be appointed by the
Court or the Judge for that purpose.. Before iiling the under-
taking the defandant shall serve a copy thereof upon the ‘
plaintiff, and if the plaintiff require a justification by the
sureties, he shall " give notice thereof to ' the defendant within
two da s, or at the time of giving notice of motion for an order
to disc arge the attachment, the defendant ma in his notice
name the sureties; and if _ therplaintiff grequire t em tojustify,
he shall give notice thereof at the hearing of the motion.’ “If
required, the sureties shall justify before the Court in " which
the suit is pending, or the Judge thereof, after reasonable
notice.wa «  ‘J 

SEC. 140. The defendant--may‘ also, any time before
the time of answering e ires, apply on» motion, u on reason-s ,;°,,°,,f,,,.d,,,,
ble notice to the plainti , to the Court in which t e action is,ght&c eogm
brou ht, or to the Judge thereof, for the discharge. of " the ‘
attacément, on the ground -that, the writ was 1‘ improperly '
issue . S J - . 1

SEC. 141. If the motion be made upon aflidavits onthe PM W 3
part of’ the defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintiff may 0 pdlse 1);” y
o pose the same,by affidavits or other evidence, in addition to ° he’ °"‘°°“°°
t ose on which the writ of, attachment was issued.
- SEC. 142. If upon such application, it shall satisfactorily h
appear that the writ of attachment :v_va's, improperly issued, ‘-1t cI»’i53v1-i{g° .
Shallbedischarged. -‘A ‘ ‘ '1" .  _ . . -
‘ ‘-: «S130; 143.. The-Territoria1,MarslIal, or the Sheriff -of the
County,‘ ‘shall return the writof attachment with the summons, Return of
if issued at the same time; otherwise-within twenty days a,fter.°“’°°"
itsreceipt, with a certificate of his proceeding, indorsed thereon
or attached thereto. - ' ‘ ' J ‘

A t ’
. or’£$"q131€'$??t Party», When he 95

42 . mws or UTAH.

CHAPTER 5.—DEPOSIT IN Connr,

‘ SEC. 144. When it is admitted, by the pleading or ex-

Cém ma ’ amination of a party, that he has in his possession or under
orderdelitzery. his control, any money or other t ' ca able of delivery,
which being the subject. of liti ation is eld y him as trustee

for another party, or which be ongs or is due to another party,

the Court may order the same, upon motion, to be deposited

in Court, or delivered to such party _upon such conditions as ’

may be just, subject to the further direction of the Court.
SEC. 145. A receiver may be appointed by the Court in

which the action is pending, or by a Judge Ethereof: First-— _

Before judgment provisionally, on the ap lication of either
ta lishes a primafacie rig t to the roperty,
or an interest in the property- which is the subject of t e action,
and which is in the possession of an adverse party, and the
propert or its rents and proiits are in danger of being lost _or
materi y injured or impaired. Second—After judgment to
dispose of the pro rty according to the jud ent, or to pre-
serve it during t e pendency of an appe ; and Third—In
such other cases as are in accordance with the practice of
Courts of Equity jurisdiction. 1

TITLE VI.
Of the Trial and Judgment in Civil Actions.

CHAPTER I.—-JUDGMENT IN GENERAL.
SEC. 146. A judgment is the iinal determination of the

J“d'm°m' rights of the parties in the action or proceeding, and may be
entered in term or vacation.
SEC. 147. Judgment may be given for or against one or
H ‘mm more of several plaintiffs, and for or ‘net one or more of
"' several defendants; and it may, when t e justice of the case
r uires it, determine the ultimate rights of the parties on each
si e, as between themselves. '
As-ainst SEC. 148. In an action against several defendants, the
several

defendants. Court ma , in its discretion, render judgment. against one or
more of t em, leaving the action to proceed against the others
whenever a several judgment is roper.
SEC. 149. The relief grante to the plaintiff, if there be
Extent or no answer, shall not exceed that which he shall have demand-

“°“°", ed in his complaint; but in any other case the Court may
grant him any relief consistent with the case made by the com-
plaint and embraced within the issue.

- SEC. 150. An action may be dismissed, or a judgment of

nonsuit entered in the following cases: First-By the plaintiff

gglmisnl of himself at any time before trial, upon the payment of costs, if
on 01'

nonsuit. counter claim has not been made. ‘If a rovisional remedy

a
has been allowed, the undertaking shall t ereupon be deliv-
ered by the Clerk to the defendant, who may have his action

' NINETEENTH SESSION. u 43

thereon. , Second—By either party u on the written consent
of the other. Third——By the Court w en the plaintiff fails to
a pear on the trial, and the defendant appears and asks for
t e dismissal. Fourth—By the Court, when u n trial and
before the final submission of the case the plaint' abandons it.

_ Fifth-—By the Court, u on motion of the defendant, when

upon the trial. the plainti fails to rove a sufhcient case for

“ the jury. The dismissal mentione in the first two subdivi-

sions shail be made by 'an entry in the Clerk’s register.
Judgment may thereupon be entered accordingly. In every
other case the judgment shall be rendered on the merits.

CHAPTER 2.—JUDeMENr UPON FAIEUEE TO _A.NsWER.

SEC. 151. Judgment may be had, if the defendant failto
answer the com laint, as follows: First—In an action arisin
upon contract or the recovery of money or damages only, 1 J at’
no answer has been nled with the Clerk of the Court within :li‘i‘u$%o ml
the time specified in the summons, or such further time as "'“""°"'
may have been granted, the Clerk, upon the a plication of
the plaintiff, shall enter the default of the de endant, and
immediately thereafter enter. judgment for the amount s ci-
fiedinthe summons, including the costs against the defen ant,
or against one or more of several defendants, in the cases pro-
vided for in Section Thirty-Two. Second—In other actions,
if no ‘answer has been filed with the Clerk of the Court within
the time specified in the summons, or such further time as may
have been granted, the Clerk shall enter the default of the
defendant; and thereafter the plaintiff may apply, at the first,
or any subse uent term of the Court, for the rehef demanded ‘
in the comp aint. If the takin of an account, or the proof
of any fact,.be necessary to enab e the Court to give judgment, A
or to carry the judgment into effect, the Court may take the
account, or hear the proof, or may, in its discretion, order a
reference for that purpose. And where the action is for the
recovery of damages, 1n whole or in part, the Court may order

’ the dam es to be assessed by a jury; or, if to determine the

amount 0 damages, the examination of a Ion account be
necessary, by reference, as above provided. Thir —In actions
where the service of summons was b publication, the lain-
till’, upon the expiration of the time esrgnated in the or er of
publicatlilon, 11)nay, 3 an proof off the §ub1ication,dan% thcat no
answer as een e’ , a 1 or ‘u ment; an t e ourt
shall thereupon re uire to beJm e of the demand men-
tioned in the comp aint, and if the defendant be not a resident
of the Territory, shall require the plaintiff, or his agent, to be
examined on oath respecting any payments that have been
made to the (plaintiff, or to any one for his use, on account of
such deman , and .may render judgment for the amount which

A he is entitled to recover.

44 ‘LAWS or UTAH.

. -CHAPTER 3.—Or. Issuns AND THE MANNEH or THEIR
' ’DISPQSITION. '

SEC. 152. An issue arises when a fact or ‘conclusion of

law is maintained b the one party, and‘ controverted by the

,‘'’‘’,,,°“,,, ‘““‘‘“° otiher. Issues are o two’ kinds: First-—-Of law; and: Second-
O act. . ' ' ' 1 -

SEC. 153. An issue of law arises upon at demurrer to the

0f law» com laint, or an answer as to some part ‘thereof.
EC. 154. An issue of fact arises: First——Upon amateria.l
or rm. allegation in the complaint, controverted by the answer; and,

Second——Upon new matter in the answer, except an issue of
law is joined therein. ' A
SEC. 155. An issue of law shall be tried by the Court
of 13%,“. unless it be referred, upon consent, as provided in Chapter Six
*r1°°- of this Title.

SEC. 156. Anissue of. fact shall be tried .b ajury, unless

~ g gas, now a jury trial is waived, or a reference be ordere as provided in

this Act. Where there are issues, both of law and fact, to the
same complaint, the issue of law shall be nrst disposed of.
_ SEC. 157. The Clerk shall enter cases upon the calendar
Eng-yofcageg of the Court according to the date of the issue, unless other-
°n °*1°n¢”‘- wise provided b rule of Court.
SEC. 158. ither party may bring the issue-to trial, or
to a hearin , and in the absence of the adverse party,unless
-the Court or good cause otherwise direct, may-proceed with
the case and. take a dismissal of the. action, or a verdict or
judgment, as the case may require. . « ‘ . .
SEC. 159. A motion to postpone a trial, on the ground of
the absence of evidence, shall only be made upon aflidavit
- showing the materiality of the evidence expected to be ob-
Prostpolnement tained, and that due diligence has beenused to procure it. The
° “'1” Court may also require the moving party to state, u n affi-
davit,‘ the evidence which A he ex ‘ects to obtain; an if the
adverse party thereupon admit t at such evidence would be
given, and that it be considered as actually given on the trial,
or offered and overruled as improper, the trial shall not be
postponed. ' The party obtaining the postponement of a trial
shal also, if required by the adverse party, consent that the
testimony of any witness of such adverse -party, who is in
attendance, be then taken b deposition} before a Judge or
Clerk of the Court in which t e case is pendi , or before such
other oflicer as the Court may indicate, whichnéall accordingl
' be done, and the testimony so taken may be-read on the trial w1t
the same effect, and subject to the same ob'ections as if the
witnessess were produced. In actions. invofving the title to
mining claims and uartz le es, if it be made to appear to
the satisfaction of t e Court t at in order that justice may be
done, and the action fairly tried on its real merlts, it is neces-
sary that further developments should be made, and that the
party applying has been guilty of no laches and is acting in
goo faith, the Court shall‘ grant the postponement of the

NINETEENTH SESSION. ,‘ 45

trial of the action, giving the party a reasonable time in which
to prepare for trial. And in granting such postponement, the
Court may, in its discretion,'annex as a condition thereto, an
order that the party obtaining such postponement shall not,
pending the trial“ of the action, remove from the premises
1n controversy, any valuablevquartz rock, earth or‘ ores, and for
any violation of an order so made,‘ the Court,»=or Judge there-
of, may punish for contempt, as in the cases of violation of an
order of injunction, and may also ‘vacate ’the~o'rder of post-
ponement. ‘ “ -  ' ' " ~ = '

  }‘eHA1=a:tRi4.-mm at am.
A’  "
A  of the ‘Jury.
SEC. .160. When the actionis called for ‘trial by jury, the

‘Clerk shall prepare seperate‘ ballots, containing, the. names of Jury, 1,0,, ,

the jurors summoned who‘ have appeared and; not been drawn-
excused, and deposit them in a box. He shall thendraw from
the box twelve names, and the rsons whose names are drawn
shall constitute the jury. ‘the . ballots beceme exausted
before the jury is com lete,.or if from any cause a juror or
jurors be excused or disc arged, the Territorial Marshal, or the
Sheriff of the County shall summon, under the direction of
Court, from the citizens of the County, and not from bystand-
ers, so man qualified persons as may be necessary to complete
the jury. he jury shall consist of twelve persons, unless the
parties consent to a less number. The partles may consent to
any number not less than four, Such consent shall be entered
by the Clerk in the minutes of the trial.

SEC. 161. As soon as the jury is completed, an oath or

afiirmation shall be administered to the jurors, in substance ?F§,.Bf§}'§,‘-}§',;, .

t_ha.t.they, each of them,  well and -truly tryathe ;matter in ~
issue between—.¢-———-°-, the pla;inti_ii', and--—-;-----.-‘-——-, the defend-
ant, and that they will, have no, communication. with any
person. .o1_1.the subject matter 01? the trial, ‘except with a fellow
juror, ‘until they have. agreed upon their verdict, or been
dischar ed by. the Court, and a true verd1ctxrende_re_d accord-
ing to t e law and the evidence. If the jury, ,_sha]l,retire_.to
deliberateupon their verdict,r the shall be placed in charge of
the ~Territo_r1a.l ,Marshal,,' or the, heriff of the County, who

_ shallgkeepy them gseparafeand. apart from all others, and from

separating, until they shall. have agreed. upontheir jverdict, or
been discharged {by the. Court, If , necessary., it shall. be the
dutiylrjof the Territorial Marshal,.o_r the Sheriff. of the Conngy,
3 t _e. charge of the parties to, the action ,' to proyide, food or
ejury; _ 1  ,, 1 pg  W I.  _

 SEC‘. 162. Either ‘party may 'challenge, the jurors;. _but
when there are several parties on either side, they shall join in Challenseo
a challenge before it can be made, unless; the Court otherwise

-order or direct. “The challenges shall be to‘ individual jurors, and

Juror becom-

46 . LAWS or UTAH.

shall be peremptory or for cause. Each party shall be entitled
to six perempto challenges. . ' '
SEC. 163. hallenges for cause ma be taken on one or
more of the followin rounds: First-— - want of any of .the
cane“. for qualiiications prescri by statute to render a erson compe-
°"“‘°° » tent as a juror. Second——Consan i-nity wit 'n~=the .-third
degree to "either. party. 'I‘hird-— tanding in the . relation
of debtor or creditor, guardian and ward, master and servant,
employer and clerk‘, or principal and agent to either party; or
being a member of the amily of either gearty; or a partner, or
united in business with either party; or ing security on an
bond or obligation for either party. Fourth—Having serv
as a juror or been a witness on a previous trial between the
same parties for the same cause of action; or being then a
witness therein.’ Fifth—Pecuniary interest on the part of the
juror in the event of the action, or in the main question invol-
ved in the action; except the interest of the juror as a member
or citizen of a municipal corporation. .Sixth—Having formed

or expressed an unqualified opinion ‘or belief as to the merits C

of the action; or the main question involved therein; provided,
that the readin of newspaper accounts of the ‘subject matter
before the Cou shall not disqualify a juror either for bias or
opinion. ~Seventh—The existence of a state of mind in the
juror, evincing enmity against, or bias to either party.

mnem ' SEC. 164. Challen s for cause shall be tried by the

how tried. Court. The juror chal en 6., and an other person may be
‘examined as a witness on t e trial of t e challenge. -

ARTICLE IL
Conduct of tlhe.1'r£al._

SEC. 165. If, after the impanneling of the jury, and
before a verdict, a 'uror become. sick, so as to be unable to
1ng_g1ck. rform his duty, 1; e Court may order him to be discharged.

that case the trial shall roceed with the other jurors:
provided, the jury be not uced to less than two-thirds of
the original number sworn. Should the ‘ jury be reduced to a
less number than two-thirds from such cause, the remaining
jurors shall be‘ discharged, and a new jury may thenor‘ after-
wards be impanneled. - ‘ ' ' - Q '
’ SEC. 166.’ In charging the jury, the Court shall state to
them‘ such‘ matters of law as it "thinks ‘necessary for their
§§',;';,f8°*° information: in giving their verdict,- and shall give, or refuse to
give,‘ such. other instructions, u on points of ‘law’ as either
partly; may request; and if it sta the testimony of,‘ the case,
it s all also inform the ‘my that ‘they are h exclusive

‘judges ofall "questions o fact. The Court shall furnish to -

either party, at the time, upon request, a statement in writing

of the points of law contained in the charge, or shall sign, at

the time, a statement of such points prepared and submitted
; , by the counsel of , either party. ' A
y._,._,,,,,1;;, * ‘SEC. 167. After hearing the charge, the jury may either

, agreed upon their verdict; and he ,s

Nmmnnrrrn snssrorr. ' " N 47

decide in Court, or retire for deliberation. If they retire, they go dgnfg
shall be kept together in a roon1 or some other convenient gggm or
place provi ed for them, under the cha of one or more ’°'
ofIi'cer, until the agree upon their verdic , or are discharged
by the Court. he officer shall, to the utmost of his abiht ,
keep the jury separate from other rsons;-he shall not su er
any communicatmnto be made to t em, or make any himself, 1”" °f °m°°’
unless by order of the Court, except to ask them if they have,
all not, before the ‘verdict
is rendered, communicate to any’ person the state of their
deliberations, or the verdict agreed u on. _ .
SEC. 168. Upon retirin for de beration,the 'ury may
take with them all papers except depositions) W ‘ch have
beennreceived as evidence in t e cause, or copies of such papers What papers
as ought not, in the opinion of the Court, to be taken from the gg,#3;_m“¥
person having them in possession; and they may also take
with them notes of the testimony, or other roceedin s on
the trial, taken by themselves or any of them; ut none ken
by any other person. _ ” . —
’ SEC. 169.; After the jury have retired for deliberation, if Mm of
there be a disagreement between them as to any part of the u for

testimony, or if they desire to be informed of any point of law "’°“°“°' I
_ arising in the cause, they may require the oflicer to conduct

them into Court. Upon their being brought into Court, the

information required shall be given in the presence of, or after

notice to, the parties or counsel.- . . ' « ~
SEC. 170. In all cases where a jury are discharged, o'r P1’°¢°°°‘n8°

prevented from giving a verdict b reason of accident or other,.3i§§1§'aivzu5'd

cause ; during the progress of t e trial, or after the cause is 3¥'§rt3?c‘ii
submitted to them, the action may be Egén tried, immediately -
or at a. future time, as the Court shall ’ ct. ,
_ SE0. 171. . While_ the jury are absent, "the ‘Court may
a ourn from time to t1me in respect to other business, but 1t F1naladjonrn-
s all; nevertheless be deemed open for_ every purpose _con- .$§§,f',3;’,g,
nec(t1ed (vivithttihe causedgut1>1m1tteélto'1tll11e jyuryrtuntll agiggdgchgs
ren ere or ejury scarge. e on ,ma. c e
jury to bring in a sealed verdict at the opening of the Court,
1n case of an agreement during a recess or adjournment for the
g';1y.h A 11111131. adjournment of the Court for the term shall
so arge e ju . .
SEC. 172. «V17-Vxhen the jury have agreed upon their verdict
they shall be conducted into Court by the of‘t‘1cer having them Verdict-

. in charge. ’ Their names shall be called, and they shall be

asked by the Court, or the ‘Clerk, whether they have _agreed
upon their verdict; and if the foreman answer in the atlirma-

tive, they shall deliver the same to the Clerk.

SEC; 173. If the verdict be informal or insudicient in not be ..
covering the whole issue or issues submitted, the verdict ?,‘;,“,§'.em.:.
may be corrected by the jury under the advice of the Court, or
the jury may again be sent out. ' ‘

' ' SEC. 174. When the verdict is given, which must be by
unanimous agreement, except by the consent of "parties, 1t

shall be read aloud by the Clerk in open Court, and if not

How recorded.

48 , ’ . mws or UTAH.

informal or insuflicient, it shall immediately. be recorded in
full in the minutes. ‘ - 9 ‘e l ' r

ARTICLE 3.
The , Ve15dz'ct.. .

SEC". 175. The verdict of the jury, is either general or
venue,’ special. A general verdict is that by’ which they pronounce
kmdot. generally u on all or any of the issues, ‘either in favor of the

plaintiff or efendant; a s ecial verdict is that by’ which the
jlury iind. the facts only, caving the judgment to the‘ Court.
he special verdict shall present the conclusions of fact as
estabhshed by the evidence, and not the evidence to prove
them; and those conclusions of fact. shall be so ‘presented as
that nothing shall remain to the Court butfto draw from them
conclusion of law. a All verdicts shall be given in writing and

be si ned by the foreman of the jury.’ ,
E0. 176. When a verdict 1s found for the laintiff, in" an
action ‘for the recovery of money, or for the ‘de endant, when
zggggngoognd a counter claim for the recovery of money is established
recovery. exceeding .the amount of the pla1ntiff’s claim as established,

the jury shall also find the amount of the recovery. '

, SEC. 177. In an action for the recovery of specinc ~

personal propert ,_if the roperty has not been delivered to
In actionto the plaint1ff,' or t e defen ant, b his answer, claima return
f,§°‘,’,‘;§f,;!,’§f“ thereof, the fury, if their verdict e in favor of the laintiff, or
if, being in avor of the defendant, they also nn  that he_is
entitled to a return thereof, shall nnd the ,value‘o_f‘ the pro-
perty, and may, at the same time, assess the damages, if any
are claimed in the complaint or answer, which; the prevailin
party has sustained by reason of the taking or detention o
suchproperty.‘ " i" ' ' t ' ,.  
SEC; 178. “U on receiving. a verdict, an entry], shall be
ggglyteig .made by the Cler, in the _minutes of the Court, specifyin the
time of ‘trial, tliehnames of the jurors and, witnesses,’ an the
verdict; and where a special verdict is 'found, ‘either the
judgment rendered, thereon, or _if the _ case ‘be reserved for
argument or futher ‘consideration, the order, thus ‘reserving it.

' 1CHA.1?TER.5.-—-TRIAL BY Coxflér. 

ggrsrtrialmay SEC. 179., _Trialb jury may be.~waé»ved* by the several
waived. . . . . . . .

partles to an Issue of act. 1n —act1ons arlsmg ;on: contract, and

with the assent of . the, Court in other «actions, imthewmanner

following: First_-.~+-By failing to ap ear attthe trial; $e.cond+‘—

B written ‘consent, in» person, or- ‘ y attorney, iiled with the

C erk. '-1‘hird—-By :dral consent in open‘ Court, entered in the

‘ n1in11l'BS.*- ‘  Q 3  ' ' -7  V  ‘ '-

D°°‘°‘°“5 °‘ SEC. 180. Upon the trial of an issue of fact b thQ'CQul't,

its decision shall be given in Writing, and iiled wit the Clerk,

within ten days after the trial shall have taken place. In

giving the-decision, the facts found and the conclusions of law

 

NINETEENTH SESSION. 49

c

shall be separately stated. Judgment upon the decision shall
be entered accordrngly. ' . -

SEC. 181. On a jgdgment upon an issue of law, If the -
taking of an account necessary to enable the court to com-_ mm“,
plete the judgment, a reference may be ordered. Chancery 009°8-
cases may be tried by the Court, with or without the finding
of a jury, upon issues designated by the Court.

 6.—OF REFERENCES AND TRIAL BY REFEREE.

SEC. 182. A reference may be ordered upon. the agree- 
ment of the parties, nled with the Clerk, or entered in the
minutes. First——to try any or all of the issues in an action or
proceeding, whether of fact or of law, and to report a jud -
ment thereon. Second-—To ascertain a fact necessary to enab e

' the Courtto proceed and determine the case.

SEC. 183. When the parties: do not consent, the Court Same.

_ may, upon the application of either, or of its own motion,

d1rect a reference 1n the following cases: First—-When the trial
of an issue of facts requires the’ examination of a longaccount
on either side; in which case the referees may be directed to
hear and decide the whole issue, or report u on any specific
question of fact involved therein. Second-— hen the taking
of an account is necessary for the information of the Court
before judgment, or for carrying a judgment or order into
effect. Third—When a question of fact, other than upon
the pleadings, arises upon motion orotherwise in any stage of
the action; or, Fourth-4-When it is necessary for the informa-
tion of the Court in a special proceeding. ~ - « Number of

SEC. 184. A reference may be ordered to- any person or personsto
persons, not exceeding three, agreed u on bythe parties. If "“°"’ °"‘°’°“
the parties do not agree, the Court or udge shall a’ point one
or more referees, not exceedingthree, who reside in t e County,
in which the action or proceeding is triable, and against whom
there is no legal objection. , j V ,' _ , __ , . Men“ .

SEC. 185. Either party may ‘object-' to the a ppointment 2‘,§},‘2,°,‘,‘,‘€,’,‘,.,*‘;’,t,
of an person as referee on one or more of t e- following
groun s: First——A want of any of the qualifications prescribed
by statute -to render a person competent as_ a. juror. Second—
Consanguinity within the third de ree to either a.rty._ Third
-_—Standing in the relation .of guar ian and war. A, master and
servant, employer and clerk,.or princi al and. agent to either
party, or be1ng. a member of_ the fami y of either , party, or a

artner in business with either party, or  security on .an
Bond or obligation for either party.;, Fourth-%Havin ‘serve
as a juror. or being a witness on‘-any trial between t e same
parties for the same cause of, action, or being then a. witness in.
the_ cause. -Fifth—,--.Pecuniary__~interest on the part_ of such’
person in. the event. of the action, . or in the main question
involved in the action. Sixth—Having formed or’ expressed -

. an unqualined opinion or belief as to the merits of the action.

D

How taken.

Whmnnplled.

LAWS OF UTAH.

Seventh-The existence of a state of mind in such person
evincing enmity against or bias to either party.

_ SEC. 186. The objections taken to the a pointment of any
person as referee shall be heard and‘ dispose of by the Court.
Aflidavits may be read and any person examined as a witness
as to such objections. ‘

SEC. 187. The referees shall make their report within ten
days after the testimon before them is closed. Their report
upon the whole issue s all stand as the decision of the Court,
and upon filing the report with the Clerk of the Court, judg-
ment may be entered thereon in the same manner as if the
action had been tried by the Court. The decision of the
referees may be excepted to’ and reviewed in like manner as if
made by the Court. When the reference is to report the facts,
the report shall havethe effect of a special verdict.

CHAPTER 7.——GENERAL PROVISIONS RELATING ro TRIALS.

ARTICLE I.
Exceptions.

SEC.~ 188. An exception is an objection taken at the trial
to a decision upon a matter of law, whether such trial be by
jury, Court or referees, and whether the decision be made
during the formation of a jury, or in the admission of evidence,
or in the charge to a jury-, or at any other time from the call-
ing of the action for trial to the rendering of the verdict’ or
decision. . But no exception shall be regarded on a motion for
a new trial, or on an appeal, unless the exception bematerial,
and affect the substantial ri hts of the parties.

SEC. 189. The point 0 the exception shall be articularly
stated, and may be delivered in writing to the
the party require it, shall be written down by th Clerk.
When delivered inwriting, or written down by the Clerk, it
shall be made conformable to the truth, or be at the time cor-
rected until it is so made conformable. When not delivered
in writing or written down as above, it may be entered in the
J udge’s minutes and afterwards settled in a statement of the
case, as provided in this Act: provided, that if the Judge shall
in an case refuse to allow an exception in accordance with
the acts, any party agogrieved thereby may tition the
Sn reme ‘Court for leave prove the same, an s all have the
rig t_so'to do, in such mode and manner, and according to
such.regulations as the Supreme Court may by rules im(pose,
and such exceptions as are allowed by said Supreme ourt
shall become a pvartof the record of the cause. ‘

SEC. ~ 190. o’ o particular? form of exception shall be
required. The objection shall be stated with so much of the
evidence, or other matter, as is necessary to explain it, but no
more, and the_ whole as brie'fly_ aspossible. “

’ .'S1:o. 191. When a cause has been tried b the‘Court, or
b referees, and the decision or report is not m e immediate]
ter the closing of the testimony, the decision or report sh

ud e, or, if‘

iumzrnnnrn SESSION. . C ‘ 51

be deemed excepted to on motion for a new trial or on appeal,
without any special notice that an exception is taken thereto.

ARTICLE 2.

New Trials.

' SEC. 192.‘. A new trial is a re:examination.of an issue of N°"“"““°
fact in the same Court after atrial and decislon by a jury,

Court, or referees.
T SEC. .193. The former verdict or other decision may be

‘ vacated and a new trial granted on the application of the party 1.-0,. Wm

aggrieved for any of the following causes materially affecting 06”“ mI'°°

, the substantial rights‘ of ‘such party: First-—--Irregularity in the

roceeding of the Court, jury, or adverse y, or any order
3f the Court, or abuse of discretion by wmlcfhdeither party was
prevented from having a fair trial. Second-—Misconduct of
the jury. 'Third——Acc1dent, or surprise, which ordin pru-
dence could not have guarded against. Fourth- ewly
discovered evidence, material for the party making the a$ph-
cation, which he could not with reasonable dihgence ave
discovered and produced at the trial. Fifth—Excessive
damages. Sixth——InsuHiciency of the evidence to justify the
verdict or other decision; or that it is against law. Seventh-—
Error in law occurring at the trial and accepted to by the party

making the application.

-SEC. 194. When the a plication is made for a cause Appuuam,
mentioned in the ‘first, secon , third and fourth subdivisions h°W *“°°-
of the last Section, it shall be made upon affidavit; for any
other cause it shall be made upon a statement prepared, as
provided in the next Section-.

‘ SEC. 195. The arty intending to move for a new trial
shall give notice of t e same as follows: When the action has
been tried by a jury, within five da s after the rendition of 4
the verdict, and when the action has i n tried by the Court £’;’3a‘.§}."g‘§$:
or by a referee within ten days after receiving written notice of

the rendering of the decision of the Jud e, or of the filing the

report of the referee. The notice shal designate generally
the girounds“ upon which the motion will bemade. Within
five ays after giving such notice’, the said party shall pre-

are and file wit the Clerk the aflidavit or statement required

y the last Section. A copy of the affidavit shall on the same
day be served on the adverse party. The party preparing the
statement shall number the p s and lines thereo ,
havin filed the same with t e Clerk, and had such filing
entere and indorsed, shall serve the‘ same on the adverse
party on the same day, who may pro c amendments thereto,
referrin to the page and line of he statement, and shall
within ve days after the service on him of the statement, nle
his amendment with the ‘Clerk, and after having such filing
entered and indorsed, shall on the same day serve the same
with the statement upon the moving party, who shall within
five days thereafter give written no cc to the adverse party if

52

A 1! t!
w 5.5:. 1?.“
made.

' in which such evidence is alleged to

. the Court.

LAWS OF UTAH.

he declines admitting the amendments or they shall be deemed J .

accepted. At any time thereafter either party ma have the

statement settled by the Judge or referee upon two ays’ notice
thereof to the other party. If no aiiidavit or statement be

filed within five days after the notice of new trial, the right to »

move for a new trial shall be . deemed waived. When the
notice designates as the ground upon which the motion will
be made the insuiliciency of the evidence, to {justify the verdict
or other decision, the statement shall s i y the particulars
insufficient. , When
the notice designates as the ground of the motion; error in law
occurring at the trial and excepted to by. the moving part , the
statement shall specify the particular errors upon which the
party will rely. A If no such s cihcations be made, the state-
ment shall be disregarded. he statement shall contain so
much of the evidence or reference thereto as may be necessary
to explain the particular points thus s ified and no more.
When the statement. is agreed to it shall accompanied with
the certiiicate either of the parties themselves in fact, or their
attorney, that the same has been agreed upon and is correct.
When settled by the Judge on referee, it shall be accompanied
with his certificate that the same has been allowed by him and
is correct. When no amendments have been filed the state-
ment shall be accompanied with the certihcate of the Clerk
of that fact. On the argument, reference may also be made to
the pleadings, depositions and documentary evidence on file,
testimony taken and written out by a short-hand reporter,
authorized by the; Court to take the same, and the minutes of
If . the‘ application be made upon affidavits
filed, the adverse part may use counter aflidavlts on the hear-
ing. Any counter afli avits shall be hled with the Clerk and
copies served on the moving party, at least two days previous
to the hearing. The affidavits and counter afhdavits, or the
statement thus used, in connection with such pleadin s,
depositions, documentary evidence on file, testimony taken %y
a repprter and minutes of the Court as are read or referred to

on t e hearing, shall constitute, without further. statement,

the papers. to be used on appeal from the order grantin or
en

refusing the new trial. To i tify the aflidavits, it sh be
suflicient for the Judge or Clerk to-indorse them at the time as
having been read or‘ referred to on the hearing- To identify
any depositions, documentary evidence on file, testimony taken
by a reporter, or minutes -of the. Court» read or referred to~on
the hearing, it shall be. suiiicient, that the - Judge designate
them, as having been read orrefened to.in his certificate to be
for that purpose by him made thereon. The severel periods
of time limited may be enlarged by the Written agreement of
the parties, or u on good cause shown by the Court, or’ the
Jud , before W cm the cause» was tried. ' » . ~
%eEO. 196. The application fora new trial shall be ,made
at the earlest - period practicable after hling the affidavit or
statement, and the Court or Judge granting or refusing a new
trial shall state in writin generally the grounds upon which

the same is granted or re used.

NINETEENTH SESSION. . , 53

CHAPIER 8.—TH_E MANNER or GIVING AND ENTERING
JUDGMENT.

SEC. 197. When trial by jury has been had judgment
shall be entered by the Clerk .in conformity to the verdict, 1:§:‘vggr::1(1§nvt3hem

' within twenty-four hours after the rendition of the verdict,

unless the Court order the case to be reserved for argument
or further consideration, or grant a stay of roceedrngs.

SEC. 198. , When the case is reserve for argument or Ar me t 1,
further consideration, as mentioned in the last Section, it may casi? " °

_ be brought by either party before the Court for argument.

S130. 199. If a counter claim, established at the trial,
exceed the plaintiff’s demand, so established, judgment for Cloun'ter
the defendant shall be given for the excess; or, if it appear ° am’
that the defendant is entitled to any other affirmative relief,
judgment shall be given accordingly. r

SEC. 200. In an action to recover the ossession of per-
sonal property, judgment for the plainti may be for the Action for
possession, or the value thereof, in case a delivery cannot be ;§°,‘§f,’§§{ °‘
had, and damages for the detention, or the value of the use property. etc.
thereof. If the property have -been delivered to the plaintiff,
and the defendant claim a return thereof, judgmentfor the
defendant may be for a return of the propert , or the value
thereof, in case a return cannot be had, an dam es for
taking and withholding the same, or the value of t e use
thereof. In an action on a contract or obligation for the direct
payment of ‘money, judgment for the plaintiff, whether the
same be by default or after verdict, or decision of the Court or
referee, shall be for money only. And in an action against
any person for the recovery of money received by such person
in a fiduciary capacity, or to the use of another, judgment for
the laintifi‘, whether the same be by default or after verdict,
or ecision of the Court or referee, may be made pa able in
the same kind of money or currency so receive y such
person. ‘

SEC. 201. The Clerk shall keep among the records of the 5 d
Court a book for the entry of judgment, to be called the B30 . mt
“Judgment Book,” in which each judgment shall specify -
clearly the relief granted, or other determination of theaction.

SEC. 202. If a arty die after a verdict or decision upon
any issue of fact, an before judgment, the Court may never- Deathofparty
theless render judgment thereon. Such judgment shall not be
a lien on the real property of the deceased party, but shall be
payable in the course of administration upon his estate.

SEC. 203. Immediately after entering the judgment the Judgment
Clerk shall attach together and file the following papers, “°“-
which shall constitute the judgment roll: First-—In case the
complaint be not answered by any defendant, the summons,
with the affidavit or proof of service, and the complaint, with
a memorandum indorsed on the complaint that the default of
the defendant in not answering was entered, and a copy of the
judgment. Second—-In all other cases the summons, plead-

54 ' LAW! or UTAH.

in s, verdict and a cop of the judgment, and any orders
re ating to a change of t e parties. -

Lien of SEC. 204. Immediately after filing a jud ent roll the

’“““'“‘°" Clerk shall make the ro r entries 0 the _ju gment, under
appro riate heads, in t e ocket ke t by him, and from the
time t e judgment is docketed it sh become a lien upon all
the real property of the judgment debtor not exempt from
execution in the county, own by him at the rendition of the
judgment, in his own right. The lien shall continue for two
years, unless the judgment be previously satisfied. But the
time during which the execution of the judgment is suspended
by appeal or action of the Court or defendant, shall not be

’ com uted. . '

- EC. 205. The docket mentioned in the last Section is a
Docket, how book which the Clerk shall keep in his oflice with each page
‘‘‘’P‘' divided into columns: judgment debtors; judgment creditors;

_ judgment; time of entry; where entered" in judgment book;
appeals; when taken; judgment of .%p llate Court; satisfac-
tion of judgment; when entered. judgment be for the
recove of money or damages, the amount shall be stated in
the doc et under the head of judgment; if the judgment be for
any other relief, a memorandum of the general character of the

- relief granted shall be stated. The names of the defendants
shall be entered in the docket in alphabetical order.

To be 0 n SEC. 206. The docket kept by the Clerk shall be open at
for inappcgtton. all times during office hours for the inspection of the public,
without charge; and it shall be the dut of the Clerkto arra
the several dockets kept by him in sue a manner as to fac' '-
tate their inspection.
S150. 207. A transcript of the original docket, certified by
1123 33,"... the Clerk, may be filed with the Recorder of any other County,
<=°In*1°I- and, from the time of the filing the judgment, shall become
a lien upon all the real property of the judgment debtornot
exempt from execution in such County, owned b him at the
rendition of the judgment in his own right. he lien shall
. - continue for two years, unless the judgment be previously
Duration of satisfied. But the time during which the execution of the
11*‘ judgment is suspended by appeal, or action of the Court or
defendant, shall not be computed.
swim“ SEC. 208. Satisfaction of a judgment may be entered in
of auagmeffg the Clerk’s docket upon an execution returned satisfied, or

.“°" °‘“°"“' upon an acknowledgment of satisfaction filed wtth the Clerk,

made in the manner of an acknowled ent of a conveyance
of real property, by the judgment cre ‘tor, or within one year
after the jud ent, by the attorne , unless a recovation of
his authority e previously med. henever a judgment shall
be satisfied in fact, otherwise than upon execution, it shall be
the duty of the party or attorney to give such acknowledg-
ment, and upon motion the court may compel it, or may order
the entry of satisfaction to be made without it.

Nxrinrnnmn srzssrox.

TITLE VII.
Of the Execution of the Judgment in Oivil Actions.

CHAPTER 1.—-THE Emourrorr.

SE0. 209. The party in whose favor judgment is given, nxeouuon
may at any time within three years after’ the entry thereof, ‘"7 "‘“°-
issue a writ of execution for its enforcement, as prescribed in
this Chapter.

SEC. 210. The writ of execution shall be issuedin the
name of the Territor of Utah; sealed with the seal of the 1.0,, 0,
Court, and subscribe by the ‘Clerk, and shall be directed to Writ-
the Territorial Marshal, or the Sheriff of the County, and shall
intelligibli refer to the judgment, stating the Court, the “
Countiylv w ere the judgment roll is filed, the name of the par-
ties, t e judgment, an if it be for money, the amount thereof,
and the amount actually due thereon, and if made payable in
a. specihed kind of money or currency as provided 1n Section
Two hundred, the execution shall also state the kind of mone
or currenc in which the 'udgment is pfayable, and shal
require, su tantially as fo ows: First-— 11'. be against the
property of the judgment debtor it shall require the officer to
satisfy the judgment’, with interest, out of the personal property
of such debtor, and if sufficient personal property cannot be
found, then out of his real property; or if the judgment be
a lien upon real property be on ' g to him on the day when
the judgment was docketed, or i the execution be issued to a
County other than the one in which the jud ent was recov-
ered, on the da when the transcript of the ocket was filed
in the office 0 the Recorder of ‘ such County, stating such
day. Secohd—If it be against real or rsonal property in the
hands of the ersonal representatives; eirs, devisees, legatees,
tenants of property, or trustees, it shall require the odicer
to satisf the judgment with interest out of such property.
Third—— it be against the person of the judgment debtor, it
shall require the ofhcer to arrest such debtor, and commit him
to the jail of the County until he pay the judgment with
interest or be discharged according to law. Fourth—If it be
issued on a judgment made ayable in a specified kind of
money or currency as rovideld in Section Two Hundred, it
shall also require the o cer to satisf the same in the kind of
money or currenc in which said ju gment is made pzizlyable,
and the oflicer s all refuse payment in an other 'nd of
money or currency; and in case of levy and e of the property
of the judgment debtor, he shall refuse ayment from any
purchaser at such sale in any other kin of money or our-
rency than that specified in the execution. The oflicer collectin
money or currency in the manner required by this Act, sh
pay to the plaintiff or party entitled to recover the same, the
same kind of money or currency received by him, and in case
of neglect or refusal to do so, he may be liable on_ his official
bond to the judgment creditor in any sum not exceeding

--no .9‘!

8:

Judgment on

joint contract.

In issue
to erent
counties.

Pro
nub to
execution

LAWS OF UTAH.

double the amount of money so collected. Fifth—If it be for
the delivery of the possession. of real or personal property, it
shall require the officer to dehver the possession or the same
particularly describing it, to the party entitled thereto, anti
may at the same time require the oflicer to satisfy any costs,
damaoes, rents, or profits, recovered by the same judgment
out of the personal property of the party against whom it was
rendered, and the value of the property _for_ which the i]iudg-
ment was recovered, to be specified _ therein; if a de very
thereof cannot be had, and if suiiicient personal property
cannot be found, then out of real property, as provided in the
first subdivison of this Section. '

SEC. 211. When a writ of execution is issued on ya judg-
ment recovered against ‘two or. more persons in an action upon
a joint contract, in which action all the defendants were not
served with summons, or did not a ar, it shall’ direct the
Territorial Marshal, or the Sheriff 0 t e Count ,'to satisfy the
judgment out of the joint propert of all the efendants and.
the individual property only 0 the defendants who were
served, or who appeare ‘in the action. In other respects the

writ shall contain the directions specified in Subdivisions One-

and Four of the last Section.

SEC. 212. The execution may be returnable at any time,
not less than ten, nor more than ninety da s after its receipt by
the officer to the Clerk with whom the ju gment roll is filed.

SEC. 213. When a jud ent requires the payment of
money; or the delivery of re or personal property, the same
shall inforced in those respects by execution.

SEC. 214. Where it re uires the performance of any
other act, a certified copy of t_ e judgment may be served upon
the part against whom it is given, or upon the person or
officer w o is required thereby, or by law, to obey the same
and his obedience thereto inforced. .

SEC. 215. Notwithstanding the death of _ a party after
the jud ent, execution thereon may be issued, in case of the
death 0 the plaintiff, the same as if he were living, upon the
application of his executor, or administrator, or successor in
interest, to the Court in which the judgment was rendered; and
in case of the death of the defendant, if the judgment be for
the recovery of real or personal property, execution may.be
issued against such property, in the same manner and with
the same effect as if he were still living.

SEC. 216. Where the execution is against the property of
the judgment debtor, it may be issued to the Territorial
Marshal, or the Sheriff of an County in the Territory.
Where itrequires the delivery 0 real or personal pro rt , it
shall be issued to the Territorial Marshal, or the Sheri o the
County, where the property, or some part thereof, is situated.
gxecitiitions may be. issued at the sam_e time ‘to ~ different

oiin es. 1 - * ‘

SEC. 217. All goods, chattels, moneys, and other pro-
perty, real and personal of the judgment debtor, or any
interest therein 0

the judgment debtor not exempt by law, ‘

 TH SESSION. - 5'7

and all propert and rights of roperty seized an held under
attachment in t e action, shall hable to execu on. . Shares ,

and interests in any corporation or company, and debts and

credits, and other property not capable of manual delivery, may

be attached in execution in like manner as upon writs of attach-

ment. ’ Gold dust and bullion shall be returned by the oiiicer

as so much money collected, at its current value, without
exposing the same to sale. Until a levy, personal property

shall not be affected by the execution. T

’SEC. 218. If the property levied on be claimed by a Proceedings

thirldmperson as his propert , the Territorial Marshal, or the ;',.‘:,°’° ,3
She ' of the County, sha summon from the ‘County six gllurdnirwngitg;
persons qualified _as jurors between the parties, to try the .
vahdity of the claim. He shall also give notice of the claim

. and of the time of trial to the‘ plaintiff, who may appear and

contest the claim before the jury. The jury and the witnesses
shall be sworn by the Oflicer, and if their verdict be’ in favor of
the claimant, the Officer may relinquish the levy, ‘unless the
judgment creditor gives him a suiiicient indemnity for proceed-
ing thereon. The ees of the jury, Oflicer and the witnesses,
shall be paid by the ‘claimant, if the verdict be against him;
otherwise by the laintiff. -

SEC. 219. T e following property shall be exempt from Pm Ry
execution, except as herein otherwise provided: First-—Chairs, exeilneptfrom
tables, desks and books, to the value of one hundred dollars, °‘°°““°"°
belon gin to the judgment debtor. Second—Necessary house-
hold, tab%e and kitchen furniture, belonging to the judgment
debtor, including stoves, not to exceed one stove for every five
persons of the family, stove pi and stove furniture, wearing
apparel: one bedstead, one b and the necessary beddin for
every two persons in the family, and provisions and _fue for
the family suflicient for sixty days. « Third—The farming
utensils or implements of husbandry of the judgment debtor,
also, two oxen, or two horses, or two mules, and their harness, i
one cow and calf for ‘every five persons in the family, one cart
or wagon, and food ‘ for such oxen, horses, cows or mules for
sixty days; also, all seed grain, or vegetables actually pro-
vided, reserved, or on hand for the purpose of planting or
‘sowing at any time within the ensuing six months, not exceed-
ing in value one hundred dollars. Fourth—-The tools, tool
chest and implements of a mechanic or artisan, recessary to
carry on his trade, the instruments and chests of a surgeon,

physician, surveyor, and dentist, necessary to the exercise of

-their rofessions, with their scientific and professional libraries,

and t e law libraries of an attorney or counselor, and the
libraries of ministers of the gospel. Fifth-—The tent or cabin
of a miner, including a table, camp stools, bed and bedding,
and neces, tools used in mining,‘ not exceeding the value of
four hundre dollars, with provisions necessary to his support
for thirty days. Sixth—-Two oxen, or two horses‘, or two mules
and their harness, and one cart or w on, by the use of which.
a cartman teamster or other laborer haaéiitually earns his living,
and food for such _oxen, horses or mules for sixty days; and a

58

LAWS OF UTAH.

horse, harnlsss and vehicle used by, a physician, surgeon O1
minister of the gospel in. making his rofessional visits.
Seventh—One sewing machine, not: excee 'ng in value one
hundred dollars, in actual use  the debtor or his family.
If the debtor be head of a fami , there shall be ~ a further
exem tion from execution of nve ead of sheepand the wool
there rom, for every person in his family, two hogs and three
pigs under three months old, and the necessary food for all
such animals for sixty days. i All flax raised by thedebtor and
the manufactures therefrom, and all cloth manufactured in
the family of the debtor, for their own -use. All spinning
wheels and looms and other instruments of domestic labor
kept for family use. The earnings of such debtor for his personal
service, or those of his family, at any time within sixty days
-next receding the levy are also exem t from execution.

Eight -All fire engines, hooks and lad ers, with the carts,
trucks and carriages, hose, buckets, implements and apparatus
thereto appertaining, and all furniture and uniforms of any
fire company or department now existing, or which ma be,
under the laws of this Territo , hereafter organized. inth
—All arms, ammunition, uni orms and accoutrements, re-
quired bylaw to be ke t by an erson. Tenth—All court
houses, jails, public o ces an uildings, school houses,
houses of pubhc worship, lots, grounds and personal property
appertaining thereto; the fixtures, furniture, books, papers,‘
a appurtenances belonging and pertaining to the court
house, jail and public offices belonging to any Count in this
Territory, or for the use of schools or houses o public
worshi , and all cemeteries, public squares, parks and laces,
public uild° s, town halls, ublic markets, buildings or the
use of the fire epartments an military organizations, and the
lots and grounds thereto belongin and ap ertaining, owned
or held by any town or incorporate cit , or edicated b such
town or city to health, ornament, or pu lic use, or for t e use
of any iireor military com any, now existing, or which ma

be, under the laws of t ‘s Territo hereafter organize .
Eleventh——If the debtor be the head o the family,there shall
be a further exemption of a homestead, to be selected by the
debtor, consisting of lands, together with the appurtenances
and improvements thereon, not exceeding in value one thou-
sand dollars for the judgment debtor, and the further sum_ of
two hundred and fifty dollars for each member of the family.
If the homestead selected by the debtor is of a greater value
than is exempted under this Section, it shall be optional with
the jud ment debtor to permit the same to be partitioned, or
to be so d, and to receive in money the value of the homestead
as provided in this Section. If the debtor so elect, the home-
stead may be sold as other lands are sold on execution, and,
after payin the debtor the value of the homestead, the
balance of he money shall be applied upon the judgment;
provided, that the homestead shall not be sold if the Ofhcer do
not receive a bid for a greater amount than the value of the
homestead exempted in this Section. If sold on the j udgment,

Nmwsrnnrxrn sEssIo'N-

the money paid the debtor for the homestead shall be exem t
from that or any other execution. If the Officer having t e
execution, and the judgment debtor, ‘cannot ree as to the
value of the homestead, or the partition thereo or as to the
quantit and value of any of the articles of personal propert

in this ection exempted, the Officer shall select one ersonand
the debtor another person, both being househol ers of the,

vicinity, to whom the Oflicer shall administer an oath, to ap- ,

praise and set apart the articles of personal property, if upon
these they disagree, or if the disagreement relates to the value
of the homestead, or to the partition thereof, then to report to
the Oflicer, if they can agree, their appraisal of the roperty
selected for the homestead, and if the debtor elect to ave the
property partitioned, it shall be the duty of the ap raiser to
set a art such a homestead as the judgment debtor s all elect
and entitled to under the provisions of this Section. In
case of the disagreement of the appraisers, they shall choose a
third person, who shall also be sworn; and the decision
of any two of said appraisers, when made, shall be final.
The propert not set apart. as a homestead shall be subject
to sale un er execution, the proceeds to ‘be applied on
the judgment. Twelfth-—No~ article or species 0 property
mentioned in this Section shall be exempt from execution
issued upon a 'udgment recovered for its price, or ‘a
mechanic’s or la orer’s lien, or upon a mortgage thereon.
Thirteenth-—none of. the exemptions herein made are intended
for the benefit of non-residents, but their property is liable to
execution, with the exception of the ordinary wearing apparel;
but any person coming within the Territory, with the intention
of remaining, is a resi ent within the meaning of this Act, and
nothing herein shall be so construed as to exempt the propert
of any person or persons about to depart from the Territory wit
the intention of removin their effects therefrom: provided, that
nothing in this Act sh be so construed as exempting any real
or personal property from sale for taxes. In this Section, the
word “ am y’ shall be construed to include all persons
belonging to the household. of the judgment debtor, or de-
pendant upon him for subsistence, but shall not include“
transient persons, boarders, or hired servants.

SE0. 220. The Territorial Marshal, or the Sheriff of the
County, shall execute the writ against the property of the
judgment debtor, by levying on a sufhcient amount of unex-
empted property, 1f there be suflicient, collecting, or selling
the things in action, and selling the other property, and pay-
ing to the plaintiff, or his attorneys, so much of the proceeds
as will satisfy the judgment, or depositing the amount with
the Clerk of the Court. Any excess in the proceeds over the

judgment, and the fees of the Oflicer shall be returned to the '

judgment debtor. When there is more roperty of the judg-
ment debtor than is suflicient to satisfy t e judgment and the
fees of the Officer within his view, he shall levy only on such
part of the pro rty as the judgment debtor may indicate;
provided, that t e judgment debtor may indicate at the time

satisfaction
or.

Sale of '

‘property-

Penalty for

without
notice.

sales. how

Purchaser
retuainctgey
#3‘ "’r2.."f’1

notice thereof shall be

“' -and if any

LAWS OF UTAH.

of the ‘levy such part; and provided, that the property indi-
cated be amply sufiicient to satisfy such judgment and fees.
SEC. 221. Before the 2 sale of roperltzy on execution ,
given as .fo ows: 'rst—In case of
perishable property, by posting written notice of the time and
place of sale 1n three public places of the precinct, or city
where the sale is to take place, for such a time as may be reason-
able, considering the character and condition of the property.
Second-—In case of other personal pro rty; by postmg at
similar notice in three public places 0 the precinct, or city
where the sale is to take place, not less than five nor more
than ten’ days. Third—In case of real property, by posting a.
similar notice, particularly describing the property, for twenty
days, in three public places of the precinct, or city, where the
property is situated, and also where the property is to be sold.
SEC. 222. An Officer selling without the notice rescribed
by the last Section, shall forfeit a sum not to excee five hun-
dred dollars at the discretion of the Court, to the aggrieved
party, in addition to his actual damages; and a rson wilfully
taking down or defacing the notice posted, if one before the
sale or the satisfaction of the judgment, (if the judgment be
satisfied before sale) shall forfeit to the aggrieved party, a sum
not to exceed five hundred dollars, at the discretion of the Court.
SEC. 223. All sales of propert under execution, shall
be made at auction, to the highest bi der, and shall be made
between the hours of nine 1n the morning, and live in the
afternoon. After sufficient ropert has been sold to satisfy
the execution, no more shal be sol . _ The Officer-holding the
execution shall not become a urchaser, or be interested in any
purchase at such sale. hen the sale is of personal
property, capable of manual delivery, it shall be in view of
those who attend the sale, and be sold in such parcels as are
likely to bring the highest price; and when the sale is of real
pr<a)£erty, and consistm of several known lots or parcels, they
sh be sold separate y, or when a portion of such real
preperty is claimed by a third rson, and he requires it to be
sol separately, such portion slgaejll be thus sold. All sales of
real property shall be made at the Court House of the County
in which the property, or some part thereof, is situated. The
judgment debtor, if present at the sale, may also direct the
order in which the property, real or ersonal, shall be sold.
When such property consists of sever known lots or parcels,
or of » articles which can be sold to advantage separately, the
officer shall be bound to follow such directions.
- SEC. 224. If —a purchaser refuse to pay the amount bid
by him for roperty struck oif to him at a sale under execu-
tion, the O cer may again sell the property .to the highest
bidder, after giving the notice herein before provided;
loss be occasioned thereby‘ from the purchaser
refusing to pa his bid, the Ofiicer may recover the amount of
such loss, wit costs, for the benefit of the party aggrieved,
by motion, upon previous notice of five days to such pur-
chaser, before any Court of competent jurisdiction. 2

NINETEENTH SESSION. - 61

SEC. 225. Such Court shall proceed in a summary man- ,1,’,'g°n*;g“;°*;8‘ ‘

ner, in the hearing and disposition of such motion, and give mgggtl
judgment, and issue ‘execution -therefor forthwith, but the °" ° °’
refusing purchaser may claim a jury. And the same pro- -
ceedings may be had against any subsequent purchaser who

shall refuse to ay, and the Oflicer may, in his discretion,
thereafter reject t e bid of any person so refusing.

SEC. 226. The two preceding Sections shall not be con- $,}';“,3,‘,“3§,’,,‘,’,‘,',.
strued to make the Officer liable for any more than the amount is “able ’
bid by the second, or subsequent purchaser, and the amount
collected from the urchaser refusing to pay. . ‘

, S130. 227. W en the purchaser of any personal property,

capable of manual delivery, shall ay the purchase monpgé geltgfiggw 01

the Oflicer making the sale shall de °ver to the urchaser
property, and if desired, shall -execute and de 'ver to him a
certificate of the sale and payment. Such certificate shall
convey to the urchaser all the right, title and interest which
the debtor h in and to such property, on the day the execu-
tion was levied.

SEO. 228. When the urchaser of -any personal property
not capable of manual elivery, shall ay the _ purchase Same-
money, the Oflicer making the sale sha execute and de-
liver to the purchaser a certihcate of sale and payment.

Such certiEeate shall convey to the purchaser all rlght, title
and interest which the debtor had in and to such property on
the day the execution was levied.

SEC. 229. Upon a sale of real roperty, the purchaser
shall be substituted to and ac uire the right, title, interest g;t1:tgf$fgn
and claim of the judgment de tor thereto; and when the.estate absolute.
is less than a leasehold of two» years unexpired term, the sale
shall be absolute. In all other cases, the real (property shall
be subject to redemption, as provided in this hapter. The
Oflicer. shall give to the urchaser a. certihcate of the sale, con-
taining: First:-A particu ar description of the real property sold.
Second.—The~ price bidcfor each distinct lot or parcel. Third-

The whole price paid. - Fourth——When subject to redemption,
‘it shall be so stated; and when the judgment,_under which the

' . sale has been made, is made payable in a specified, kind of

money or currency, the certificate shall also state. the-kind of
monely, }(1);lE31i)1;‘eI1l1cy, in which such refaideimptipln mfiy be mad:
whic s t e same as that speci e in t e ju gment.
duplicate of such certihcate shallbe’ filed by the OHicer in the
oflice of the Recorder of the County. ‘ _ A
.d §E_c.   sold subjercit t<1)dredemptt’13<in, as prl§>- ghrggesglgjtgg.
v1 e in e as rec. on.or anypa so se ara y-may e
redeemed in the manner ,hereinafter provided y the following
rsons, or their successors in interest: First-—-The judgment
ebtor, or his successor in interest, in the_ whole _- or any part
of the property. Second-—A creditor having a .hen by judg-
maerI‘1;t,tp1r motrtgage, on tlte  sol<111,i Cir £31111  gthare or
p ereo su sequen a on w c e ro y was
sold. The persons mentioned in the second subd11)visI1)d3n of this
Section are, in this Chapter, termed redemptioners.

62

Redemption,
how made.

_ toget er wit the amount of any

‘Same.

LAWS OF UTAH.

SEC. 231. The judgment debtor, or a redemptioner, may
redeem the property from a urchaser within six months after
the sale, on paying the pure aser the amountof his purchase,
in the kind of money or currency specified in the jud ent,
if an be s ified, with six per cent. thereon in ad ition,
_ assessment, or taxes, which
the purchaser may have paid thereon after the purchase, and
interest on such amount; and if the purchaser be also a cred-
itor, having a lien prior to that of a nedemptioner, other than
the judgment under which the purchase was made, the amount
of such lien, with interest.

SEC. 232. If.the property be so redeemed by a redemp-
tioner, either the judgment debtor, or another redemptioner
may, within sixty daysof his last redemption, again redeem
it from the last redemptioner, on paying the sum aid on such
last redemption, with three per cent. thereon in dition, and
the amount of any assessment, or taxes which the said.
last redemptioner may have paid thereon, after the redemption
by him, with interest on such amount, and in addition, the
amount of any liens held by said last redemptioner prior to
his own, with interest: provided, that the judgment under
which the pro rty was sold need not be paid as a lien. The
property may again, and as often as the debtor or a redemp-
tioner is so disposed,‘ redeemed from any previo redemp-
tioner within sixty days after the last redemption, 'th three

' per cent. thereon in addition, and the amount of any assess-

' amount of any hens other than the ‘udgm
- property was sold, held by the said ast redemptioner revious

_ the omcer. . If the debtor re eem at any

Same.

ments, or taxes, which the last revious redemptioner paid
after the redemption by him, wit interest thereon, and the
ent under which the

to his own, with interest. Notice of redem tion shall ven
to the Territorial Marshal, or the Sheriff of t e County. , no
redemption be made within six months after the sale, the pur-
chaser, or his assignee, shall be entitled to a conveyance, or if
the property be so redeemed whenever sixty days have elapsed,
and no other redem tion has been made and notice thereof

given, and the time or the redemption shall have exgireilgghe O
ee m

allbe entitled to a

_ time before the time
for the redemption expires, the effect of the sale shall be ter-
minated and he be restored to his estate.

SEC. 233. The payment mentioned in the last two sec-
tions may be made to the urchaser, or redemptioner, as the
case may be or for him to t e omcer who made the sale- and
‘a tender of the money shall be equivalent to aplayment so far as
to effect a redemgietion of the property, and such payments,
or tender, shall made in the kind of money, or currency, in
which the last redemption was made, and in which the lien of
such redemption was payable. A person desiring to redeem
may demand of the‘ purchaser, or last redemptioner, or his
attorney in fact, if he be ‘absent from the count , in which
.the ylxlroperty is situate, a statement in writin of his claims
and ‘ens against the property to be pai on redemption,

ast redemptioner, or his assi ee, s

NINETEENTH -sEssIoN. _ 63

specifying each item; and if he fail to furnish said statement
Within three days, then it shall only be necessaryto a redemp-
tioner to pay, or tender the amount -of the _bid or the last
redemption, as the case may be, with the per centage allowed
added thereto. ’ I -_ N

SEC. 234. c A redemptioner shall produce to the officer, or

;person,- from ‘whom he seeks to redeem, and servewith his Same.

notice to the oflicer: First-—A copy ‘of the docket of the judg-
ment under which he claims the right to redeem, certified by
the Clerk of the Court, where the jud ment is docketed; or if
he redeem u n amortgage, or other ‘en, _a note of the record
thereof certi ed by the Recorder. Second—-—.A copy of an as-
signment neces ‘, ' to establish his claim, verified by the
affidavit of l himsel , or of subscribing witnesses thereto; and:
Third—‘-An affidavit by ‘himself, or ‘his agent, showing the
amount then actually due on the lien. " ; ‘ ' ‘

— SEC. 235. Until the expiration of the’ time allowed for mm may be
redemption, the Court may restrain the commission. of waste restrained».
on the property, or may a point a receiver to take charge of
the property, or the rocee thereof, by order granted with or
without notice, on t e application of the purchaser, or the
judgment creditor. But it shall not" be deemed waste for the
person in possession of the property at the time of sale, or
entitled to possession afterwards, during the period allowed
for redemption, to continue to use it in the same. manner in
whichit was previously used; or to use it in-the ordinary
course of husbandry; or to make the necessary ‘repairs of
buildings thereon; or to use wood or timber on the property
therefor; or for the repair of fences; or for fuel in his family
while he ‘occupies the property. ' - v E ,

SEC. 236. The purchaser from the time of a sale until .a
redemption, and a, redemptioner from the time of ' his redem - Rem ad
tion until u another redemption, shall be entitled to receive prom.
f the tenant in possession, the rents of the property sold,
or he value of the use and occupation thereof: provided, that
in case the property shall be redeemed as rovided in this

‘Chapter, the amount of such rents and pro ts which may .

have been received by such purchaser, or redemptioner, or
which said purchaser, or redemptioner, mg; have been entitled
to claim, orgreceive, unless such claim sh be released to the
rson claiming such right of redem tion, shall be deducted
. m the.- amount which said purc , ser, or redemptioner,
would beentitled toreceive on such redemption.
~ '-SEO. 237. ‘If the purchaser of real property sold on exe- mgrgf’
cution, or his successor ininterest, or a redemptioner be evicted recover
therefrom in consequence of irregularities in the proceedings f,'}.‘,‘‘ ‘'23
concerning the sale, or of the reversal, or discharge of the judg-‘ ° *0!‘-
ment, he may recover the price paid, with interest, from the
judgment‘ creditor. If the purchaser of property, or -his suc-
cessor in‘ interest,_fail to recover possession In consequence of
irregularity in the proceedings concerning thesale, or because
the property sold -was not subject to execution and sale, the
Court having jurisdiction thereof shall, on petition of such

64 - LAWS or UTAH.

part in interest, or his attorney, revive the original judgment
or he amount paid by such purchaser at the sale, with
interest thereon from the time of ayment at the same rate that
the original judgment bore, an when so revived, the said
jud ent shall have the same effect as‘ an original judgment

of t c said Court at that date, and bearing interest as , afore-.

said, and any other, or after acquired roperty, rents, issues or
profits of the said debtor,‘ shall be ‘able to levy and sale
-under execution in satisfaction of such debt: provided, that
no roperty of such debtor bona fide sold upon the filing of
suc petition, shall be subject to the lieu of such judgment;
and, provided further, that notice of the filing of such eti-
tion shall be made by filing a notice thereof in. the office 0 the
Recorder of the County where such property is situated, and
that said judgment shall be revived 1n t e name of the origi-
nal plaintiif, or plaintiffs, for the use of said petitioner, the
party in interest. _ '

CHAPTER 2.—PRocEEn1Nes SUPPLEMENTARY To THE
* EXECUTION.

SEC. 238. When, an execution against property of the
X333 ggg; judgment debtor, or of any one of several debtors in the same
may be re- judgment, issued to the Territorial Marshal, or the Sheriff of
3n“§§v°3r.°° the County, where he resides, or if he do not reside in this
Territory, to the Territorial Marshal, or the Sheriff of the
County, where the judgment roll‘is filed, is returned unsatis-
fied, in whole or in part, the judgment creditor, at any time
after such return is made, shall be entitled to an order from
the Judge of the Court requiring such judgment, debtor to
appear, and answer upon‘ oath concerning his prop_erty,~before
such Judge, or a referee appointed by him, at atime and place
speciiied 1n the order; but no judgment debtor shall be 
to‘ attend before a, Judge, or referee, out of the County 1n
, which he resides, when proceedings are taken under the pro-

‘visions of this Chapter. ~ .« . , 7
SEC. 239. After the issuin of an execution‘ _ against
§{,”{‘;",‘,’,.§,° ,. pro rty,_ and upon proof_ by afii av1t of a party, qr otherwise,
gm o8;§1gdgg- to t e satisfactlon of the Court, or of the udge thereof,,that
ment. any judgment~debtor has roperty which _he unjustly refuses
to ap ly towards the satis tion of the judgment, such Court,
or ju ge, may—_ by- an order require the judgment debtor to
ap at at a specified "time and place ' before such‘ judge, or a
re eree appointed by him, to answer concerning the :same;- and
such proceedings may thereupon be had for the application of
the property of the judgment debtor toward the satisfaction
of t e judgment, as are provided upon the return of an exe-
cution. Instead of -the order requiring the: attendance ‘ of the
judgment debtor, the Judge may, upon adidavit. of «the ‘ judg-
ment creditor, his agent or attorney, if «it appear -to him that
there is danger of the _ debtor absconding, or the Territorial
Marshal, or the Sheriff of the County, to arrest the debtor and

NINETEENTH SESSION. ‘ j 65

bring him before such Judge. Upon being brou ht before Debtor of
the Judge, he may be ordered to enter into an un ertaking-,31ua ment -
with sufficient surety, that he will attend from time to time 1,3,-. “n”
before the Judge or referee, as shall be directed during the
pendency of proceedings, and until the -final determination
thereof, and will not in the meantime dispose of any portion
of his property not exempt from execution. In default of
entering into such undertaking, he may be committed to
rison. -
P SEC. 240. After the issuing of an execution against
property, any person indebted to the judgmentjdebtor may ,’,’,?,‘,’,‘2}."}’,2,d
pay to the Ofiicer the amount of his debt‘, or so much thereof ‘WW9!’-
as may be necessary to satisfy the execution, and the Oflicer’s
recei t shall be a sufficient discharge for the amount so paid..
EC. 241.- After the issuing, or return of ‘an execution
against’ roperty of the judgment debtor, or of- any other of
several ebtors in the same judgment, and upon plroof by affi-
davit or otherwise, to the satisfaction of the J u ge that any
person or co oration has property of such judgment debtor,
or is indebte to him in an amouift exceeding fifty dollars, the
Judge may, by an order, require such person or corporation,
or any officer or member thereof, to appear at a specified time
and place before him, or a referee appointed by him, and
answer concerning the same. ‘
SEC. 242. Witnesses may be required to a pear and
testify before the Judge, or referee, uponany procee mg under witnesses,
this Chapter in the same manner as upon the trial of an issue.
SEC. 243. The Judge, or referee, may order any property
of the judgment debtor not exempt from execution-, in the
hands of such debtor, or any other person, or due to the
judgment debtor, to be applied towards the satisfaction of the
judgment. ' J J
SEC. 244. If it appears that a person, or corporation,
alleged to have property of the judgment debtor, or indebted §f,‘,",§_“°
to him, claims an interest in the property adverse to him, or
denies the debt, the Court or Judge may authorize, by an order
made to that effect, the judgment creditor to institute an action
against such person, or corporation, for the recovery of such
interest or debt; and the Court or Judge may, by order, forbid
a transfer, or other disposition of such interest, or debt, until
an action can be commenced and prosecuted to judgment.
Such order may be modiiied, or vacated by the Judge granting
the same, or the Court in which the action is brought at any
time, upon such terms as may be just.
SEC. 245. If any person, party, or witness, disobey an
order of tliereferee, properly made in the proceedin s before §’,§3f,},“d',§:§,,
him under this Chapter, he may be punished by the ourt, or offnrder of
Judge, ordering the reference for a contempt. ' '° °'°°'

66 LAWS OF UTAH.

TITLE VIII.
Actions in Particular Cases.

CHAPTER 1.‘ —— Acrrons FOR THE FORECLOSURE or
— MORTGAGES. '

. SEC. 246. There shall be but one action for the recovery
aoxéréf of ‘any debtii or the enf;)1rcesItn§;:31t of any rlight sercuredhlb
mortgage or en _upon re e or persona prope _ y .w ‘c
$'r°eP°°tr?§'3°°t "-action sh’al1 be in accordance with the provisions  this
Chapter. In such action judgment shall be rendered for the
amount found due the plaintiff, and ' the Court shall have
power,‘ by its ‘decree or judgment, to direct a, sale of the
encumbered property, (or such part thereof as may-be neces-
sary) and the application of the proceeds of the sale to the
payment of the costs and expenses of the sale, the costs of
the suit and the amount due  the. laintitii If itshall a;%pear
from the return of the Territorial arshal or the Shenff o the
County, -that there is a deficiencjtrl of such proceeds, and a
balance still due to the plaintiff, t e 'udgment shall then be
docketed -for such balance ainst the e_fendant, or defendants,
rsonally hable for the de t, and shall, from the time of such
ocketing, be a hen upon the real estate of the judgment
debtor, and an execution -may thereupon be issued. by the
Clerk of the Court, in hke manner and form as upon other
judgments, to collect such balance, or deficiency, from the
propéarty céf7t.he',Iji1_1d entbgebtonl . af
130. 4 . t ere surp us money remaining ter
3‘'’1’‘‘“‘ “W” ayment of the amount due on the mortgage, lien-, or incum-

‘ sale, how

disposed of. rance, with costs, the Court ma cause the same to be paid to
the ‘person entitled to it, and in the meantime may direct it to
be deposited in Court. ’ I _

SEC. 248. If the .debt for which the mortgage, lien, or
galgsviréheri incumbrance is held, be not all due, so soon, as suflicient of
dge. "° the property has been sold to pay the amount due, with costs,

the sale shall cease, and afterwards, as often as more becomes
due for- rinci al or interest, the Court may, on motion, order
more to sol . But if the pro erty cannot be sold in portions,
without injury to the parties, e whole may be ordered to be
sold in the first-instance, and: the entire debt and costs paid,
there being a. rebate of interest where such rebate is proper.

CHAPTER 2.-Acrrons FOR, ’NUIsAN'cE, WASTE AND WILL-
FUL TREs1>Ass IN CERTAIN CASES, ON REAL -PROPERTY.

SEC. 249. Anythin which is injurious to health’, or
gggaegogctm indecent, or offensive to t e senses, or an obstruction to the free
for. ’ use of roperty, so as to interfere with the comfortable enjoy-

ment 0 life or property, is a nuisance, and the subject of
an action. Suc action may be brought b any person

- whose property is injuriously affected, or w ose personal

' against him

NINETEENTH snssrorr. 67,

enjoyment is lessened by the nuisance; and by the judgment,
the nuisance may be enjoined or abated, as well as damages
recovered. A ‘
SEC. 250. - If a guardian, tenant for life or years, joint Acuons for
tenant, or tenant in common of real property, commit waste waste.
thereon, any ‘person aggrieved by the waste may ‘bring an action
' erefor, m which action there may be judgment
for treble damages. '   ~
SEC. 251. Any person who shall cut down, or carry off,
any wood A orunderwood, tree’ or timber or girdle or otherwise %ljmu‘:gi°,getc.
injure any tree or timber on the land of another person, or on ,
the street or highway in front of any person’s house, village
or city lot, or cultivated grounds, or on the commons or public

grounds of an city or town or on the street or highway
in front thereo , wit 1out lawful authority, shall be liable to the mbmw 10,,

Judgment for

'owner of such land, or to such city or town, for treble the

amount of damages which may be assessed therefor, in a civil
action in any Court having jilirisdiction. -’
SEC. 252. Nothing in t e last Section shall authorise the
recovery of more than the just value of the timber taken from Same-
uncultivated wood land for the repair of a public highway or
brid e upon the land, or adjoining it.
EC. 253. If a person recover dam s for a forcible or £330 b,g';°n§°'
unlawful entry in or upon, or detention.?§:,ny building or any
uncultivated real (property, jud ment may be entered for an

amount not excee mg that at w ich the actual damages are
assessed. .

unlawful
Gum; Ctco

CHAPTER 3.--ACTIONS TO DETERMINE CONFLICTING CLAms
TO REAL PROPERTY, AND OTHER Pnovrsrorrs RELATING TO
ACTIONS Concnnnnvc REAL ESTATE.

SEC. 254. An ‘action may be brought by any person in gggggg ,2,’
possession‘, by himself or -his tenant, of real property, against possession of
any person who claims an estate or interest therein adverse to '
him, for the purpose of determining such adverse claim, estate
or interest. » 4

SEC. 255. If the defendant in such action disclaim in his Costs when
answer any interest or estate in the property, or suffer °ud - §’é’§o°$eb,§a.
ment -to be taken against him ‘without answer, the pla.int' . sh .
not recover costs. ,

SEC. 256. In an action for the recovery of real , propert , Actions Where
where the plaintiff shows a right to recover at the time t e §.‘,‘§’,',f§,’§€ed
action was commenced, but it appears that his right has termi- ge“;1dne§m,_
nated during the pendency o the action the verdict and
judgment shall be accordin to the fact, and the plaintiff may
recover damages. for withho ding the property. Immvea

SEC. 257. When damages are claimed for withholding g1)e,I;g8a,‘;gg1gd.
the property recovered, upon which permanent improvements
have been made by a defendant, or those under whomhe claims,

holding under the color of title adversely to the claims of the

68 ' LAWS OF UTAH.

plaintiff, in good faith, the value of such improvements shall
e allowed as a set-off againt such damages.
SEC. 258. The Court in which an action is pending for
Court may the recovery of real property, may, on motion, upon notice by
gglgvévgalagy either party, for goo cause shown, grant an order allowing
such party the right to enter upon the property and make
survey and measurement thereof, for the purposes of the
action.
SEC. 259. The order shall describe the property,’ a copy

23?-3'93,‘ thereof shall be served on the owner or occupant, and there- 2
‘ upon such party may enter upon the property with necessary
surveyors and assistants, an may make such survey and
measurements; but if any unnecessary injury be done to the
property he shall be liable therefor.
Manage not SEC. 260. A mort age of real property shall not be.

?m b$e<;_§g1r3§_d deemed a conveyance, w atever its tenn, so as to enable the
' owner of the mort age to recover ossession of the real
property without a oreclosure and sa e. '
scam may SEC. 261. The Court may, by injunction, on good cause
<8n:IoininJl11'Y- shown, restrain the party in ossession from doing any act to
the in'ury of real property uring the foreclosure of a mort-
gage t ereon; or after a sale or execution, before a conveyance.
SEC. 262. When real property shall have ‘been sold on
‘Damages for execution, the purchaser thereof, or any person who may have
‘mm’ succeeded to his interest, may, after his estate becomes absolute,
recover_damages for injury to the property biv the tenant in
possession, after sale and before possession is elivered under
the conveyance. _
Amen fo, ' SEC. 263. An action for the recovery of real roperty
;°rgg§g{geg°gy against a person in possession cannot be prej udiced) by an
alienation. alienation made by such_ person, either before’ or after the
commencement of the action. ~

CHAPTER4.-ACTIONS FOR THE PARTITION or REAL
. PROPERTY.

SEC. 264. When several persons hold and are in posses-

Action for sion of real property, as joint tenants or as tenants in common
partition. in which one or more of them have an estate of inheritance, or
for life, or lives, or for years, an action may be brought by one

or more of such persons for a partition thereof, according to

the respective rights of the persons interested therein, and for

a sale of such propert , or a part of it, if it appear that a

, partition.cannot be ma e without great prejudice to the owners.
Interests of SEC. 265. The interests of all persons in the property,
mesfto whether such persons be known or unknown, shall be set forth
mu?$°u3fct.h 1" in the complaint s eciiically and particularly, as far as known
to the plaintiff; an if one or more of the parties, or the share

or quantity of interest of any of the parties be unknown

to the tplaintiff, or be uncertain, or contingent, or the owner-

ship 0 the inheritance depend upon an executory device, or

~ the remainder be a contingent remainder, so that such arties

cannot be named, that fact shall be set forth in the comp aiiit.

NINETEENTH SESSION. 69

SEC. 266. No persons who have or claim any liens u on new
the property, by mortgage, judgment, or otherwise, nee be
madedparties to the ‘ action, unless such liens be matters of
recor .

SEC. 267. Immediately after hling the complaint, NOW, or
the laintiff shall file with the Recorder of the County in Acton.
whic the property is situated, a notice of the fpendency of
the action, containing the names of the parties so ar as known,
thexobject of the action, and a description of the pro ert to
be affected thereby.‘ , From the time of the filing, it . al be
deemed notice to all persons.

. SEC. 268. The summons shall be directed to all the joint s,,,,,mo,,,,°
tenants, and tenants in common, and all persons having any fgtlggggn
interest in, or any liens of record by mortgage, judgment, or
otherwise, upon the ropert , or upon any particular portion
thereof; and general y to al persons unknown who have or
claim any interest in the property. ‘

SEC. 269. If a arty having a share or interest is un-
known, or any one o the unknown parties reside out of the §.‘,‘1‘,‘},‘§;’§,‘§,§’,’
Territory, or cannot be found therein, and such fact is made to
a pear by adidavit, the summons may be served on such
a sent or unknown party be publication, as in other cases.
When publication is made, t e summons, as published shall
be accompanied b a brief description of the property which
is the subject of t e action.

SEC. 270. The defendants who have been ersonally
served with the summons, and a certified cop 0 the com- i%'§§§,_"°"9 3°‘
glaint, shall set forth in their. answers, fully an partlcularly,

e nature and extent of their interest in the property, and if
such defendants claim a lien u on the property by mortgage,
judgment, or otherwise, they s 1all state the amount and date
of the same, and the amount remaining due thereon, and
whether the amount has been secured in any other way or not;
and if secured, the extent and nature of the security; or they
shall be deemed to have waiv_ed_their rights to such lien. .

SEC. 271. The rights of the several parties, plaintiffs as Brights of
well as defendants,'may. be put in issue, tried and determined gargaetgmezyed
by such action; and when a sale of the premises is necessa , ° ° rm “
the title shall be ascertained b proof to the satisfaction of t re
Co11rt, before the judgment o sale shall be made;. and where
service of . the complaint has been made by publication, like
proof shall be required of the right of the absent or unknown
Iilarties, before such judgment is rendered; except that where A
t ere are several unknown persons having an interest in the
pro rty, their rights may be considered together in the action,
an not as between themselves. -

SEC. 272. The plaintiff shall produce to the Court, on the Cemncam“
hearing of the case, the certificate of the Recorder of ‘ the to liens-
County where the property is situated, showing whether there
were or not any liens outstanding of record upon the property,
or any part thereof, at the time of the commencement of the
action. '

SEC. 273. If it shall appear to the Court, by the certifi-

I

70 LAWS or UTAH.

Pawn, cafe of the County Recorder, or Count Clerk, or by the sworn
lggltglienfgggs or verified statement of an person w 0 may have examined_
parties. or searched the records, t at there are outstanding liens, or

- incumbrances of record upon such real propert , or any

thereof, which existed‘ and were of record at‘ the time of ,
t e commencement of said action, and the persons hold’
such liens are not made parties to the action, the Court’ sh
either order such persons to be made parties to the action, by
an amendment or supplemental complaint, or ap int a referee
to ascertain whether or not such liens or incum rances have
been aid, or if not paid, what amount remains due thereon,
and t eir order among the liens or incumbrances _severall
held by the said persons and the parties to said action, an
whether the amount remainin due thereon has been secured
in any manner, and if secure , the nature and extent of the
security.

SEC. 274. The plaintiff shall cause a notice to be served a
reasonable time revlous to the da for ap arance before the
referee appointe , as provided in t e last ection, on each per-
son having outstandin liens of record who is not a party to
the action, to appear efore the referee at a specified tlme and
place to make proof, b his own affidavit or otherwise, of the
. true amount due or to come due, contingently or absolutely,

~ thereon. In case such person be absent, or his residence be un-
known, service may be made by ublication or notice to his
agents, under the direction of the ourt, in such manner as may
be proper. The re ort of the referee thereon shall be made to the
Court, and shall confirmed, modiiied or set aside and anew
reference ordered as the justice of the case may require.
SEC. 275. If it be alleged in the complaint, and be
‘,5,:},‘;,,f’§,,., established by evidence, or if it appear b the evidence with-
ggggetgav '00 out such allegation 1n the complaint, to t e satisfaction of the
Court, that the property, or any part of it, is so situated that
artition cannot be made without great prejudice to the owners,
t e Court may order a sale thereof. Otherwise, upon the
requisite proofs being made, it shall order a partition according
to the respective ri hts of the parties as ascertained by the
Court, and appoint t ree referees there or; and shall designate
the portion to remain undivided for the owners whose interests
remain unknown or are not ascertained.
R tic SEC. 276. In makin the partition, the referee shall
110;“ m'ci’o. divide the property and ot the several portions thereof to
the respective parties, quality and guantit relatively con-
sidered, according to the respective rights 0 the parties, as
determined by the Court, designatin the several portions by
proper landmarks; and may emp oy a surveyor, with the
necessary assistants, to aid them therein. .
Re rt 0, SEO. 277. The referees shall make a re rt of their Ero-
erees. ceedin s, s ecifying therein the manner 0 executing t eir
trust, escn ing the property divided, and the shares allotted
to each party, with a particular description of each share.
Judgment, _ SEC. 278. The Court may confirm or set aside the report,
street or. and, if necessary, appoint new referees. Upon the report

Notice.

NINETEENTH sEssIoN. 71

being confirmed, judgment shall be rendered that such ar-
tition be effectual forever, which judgment shall; be bin ing
and conclusive: First»-—On all persons namedas parties to the
action, , and their legal. representatives, who have at the time
any interest in the property divided, or any part thereof, as
owners:in.fee, or as tenants for life or for years, or as entitled
to the reversion, remainder, or the inheritance of_ ‘such pro-
perty, or of any part thereof, after the termination of -a particular
estate therein, and who by any contingency, may beentitled to °
a beneficial interest in the property, or who havean interest in
any undivided share thereof as tenants. for years or for life.
Second—On all persons interested in the property who may be
unknown, to whom notice sh all have been givengof the action
for partition by- publication; and, Third—On all other persons
claiming from such parties or rsons, or either- of them. Sme.

SEC. 279. But such_ ju ment and partition shall not
affect tenants for years less than ten, to the whole of the
property which is the subject of the partition.

SEC. 280. The expenses of the referees, including those ‘es of
of a surveyor and his assistant, when em loyed, shall be as- Be erees.
certained and allowed by the Court, and t e amount thereof,
together with the fees allowed by law to the referees, shall be
apportioned. amo the different parties to the action.

SEO. 281. W en a lien is on an undivided interest or Lien on
estate of an of the parties, such lien, if a partition be made, {’.f‘,‘.‘,‘,‘,',‘,‘},_°“
shall hence orth be a charge only on the share assigned to
such party, but such share shall be first charged with its just

pigoportion of the costs of the partition, in preference to- such
11.

SEC. 282. When a part of the roperty only is ordered name for me

C to be sold, if there be an estate for 1' e or years 111 an undivided oryeara. how

share of the whole property, such estate may be set oil‘ in any ‘’°‘ °‘’' .
part of the property not ordered to be sold. .
SEC. 283. The roceeds of the sale of the incumbered P I of
roperty shall be app ' d, under the direction of the Court, as incumbered
ollows: First-To pay its just proportion of the general costs 33;, ed, ’ 5°‘
of the action. Second,-—-To ay -the costs of the reference. ’ ' '

Third-—to satisfy and cancel 0 record the several liens in their

order of priority, by‘ payment of the sums due and to become

due; the ‘amount due to be verified by afiidavit at the time of
payment. Fourth--The residue among the owners of the pro-
perty sold, according to their respective shares therein.
' SEO. 284. Whenever any party to an action who holds a
lien upon the property, or any part thereof, hasother sureties ,‘§,?§ggg,§gg
for the payment of the amount of such lien, the Court may, mnyment or
in its discretion, order such securities to be exhausted before a '
distribution of the roceeds of sale, or may order a_ just de-
duction to. be made mm the amount of the lien on the. property
on account thereof. .
SEC. 285. - The proceeds of sale and the securities taken
by the referees, or any part thereo , shall be distributed by ,},{,.”"?°,‘,’,,‘3',,,‘{,°,,‘_'
them to the persons entitled thereto, whenever the Court so ted-
directs. But in case no direction be given, all such procqads

72

LAWS OF UTAH.

and securities shall be paid into Court, or deposited therein, or
as directed by the Court. _ ‘
SEC. 286. When the proceeds of sales of any shares or

dmmmm parcels belonging to persons who are parties to the action, and

of conilicting
chains. ,

Sales. how
made.

Same.

Same.

How tenants
for life, etc» .
ma receive
sa sfactdon
for estates

Same.

Same.

their res

who are known, are paid into Court, the action may be
continued as between such parties, for the determination of
tive claims thereto, which shall be ascertained and
adjudge by the Court. Further testimony ma be taken in
Court, or by a referee at the discretion of the urt, and the
Court may, if necessary, require such parties ‘to present the
facts or law in controversy, by pleadings, as in an original
action. ‘

SEC. 287. All sales of real property, made by referees
under this Chapter, shall be made by public auction to the

highest bidder, ‘upon notice published in the manner required,

for the sale of real property on execution. The notice ‘shall

state terms of sale,,and if the property, or any part of it, is to

lsiteaéséiéd S1%11:jC(]31tb:l9 a ‘prior estate, c '
in e ce. -

' SEC. 288. The Court .shall, in the order for sale, direct
the terms of credit which may be allowed for the purchase
money of any portion of the premises of which it may direct
a sale on C1‘ed.1t,'3.I1d for that portion of which the purchase
money is re uired, by the provisions hereinafter contained,
to  mveste for the ‘benefit of- unknown owners, minors, or
pam§i?:o0ug809t'. th'I?h’£erre1:i't01Zsmay take separate mortgages and

. . ere .. ,

other securities for the whole or convenient portions of the

urchase money, of such parts of the property as are directed

y the Court to be sold on credit, for t e shares of any known
owner of full age, in the name of such owner, and for the
shares of a minor in the name of the uardian of such minor,
ang £0; other shares, in fghe name of t e Clerk of the County
an is successors in o ce. '

S130. 290. The erson entitled‘ to’ a tenancy for_life or
years, whose estate s all have been sold, shall be entitled to
receive such sum as may be deemed a reasonable satisfaction
for such estate, and which the person so entitled may con sent
to accept instead thereof, by an instrument‘ in writing, filed
with the Clerk of the Court. Upon the filing of y such consent,
the Clerk shall enter the same in the minutes of the Court. ‘

Sno. 29l. If such consent be not given, filed and entered,
as provided in the last Section, at or before a Judgment of sale
is rendered, the Court shall ascertain and determine what
proportion  age progteedsd (1): £1: bsale, aft‘? bdgedltlicting
expenses W1 a J11 an a a e sum a owe
on account of such estate, and shallorder the same to be ‘paid
to such party, or deposited in the Court for him, as the case
may require. _ '

Sag. 292. If thehpersons entitled to sucih estate for life or
years c unknown t e Court shall provide or the protection
of their rights in the same manner, as far as may be, as if they
‘were known and had appeared. " '

arge or lien, that shall be '

-and take securities ursuant . to such. sale; which they are

 THr snssrorr. 73

SEC. 293. In all cases of sales, when it appears that any Cont

person has avested or contingent future right or estate in any ruturiggrigiat

of the property sold, the Court shall ascertain and settle the 3§ui°'ot¢i'.t°’ '1'"
prpiportional value of such contingent or vested right or estate,

an shall direct such proportion of the sale to be invested,

secured or paid over, in such manner as to protect the rights

and ‘interests of the arties. "

SEC. 294. In ' cases of - sales of roperty, the terms T.,m,,.,,d
shall be made known at the time, -and if t e premises consist m°°° °f 381°‘
of distinct farms or lots, the shall be sold separately.

SEC. 295. Neither of t e referees, .nor any person for the Certain par-
benefit of either of them shall be ‘interested in any purchase; §,’,‘i‘;,,‘.'.‘,’;§3 '1}?
nor shall. a guardian of’ a minor party be interested» in the “le-
purchase of any real pro rty, being thesubject of the action,
except for the benefit of i e minor. ‘All sales contrary to the
provisions of this Section shall be ‘void. ~

SEC. .296. After completing a sale of the property, or Rem“ of
any part [thereof ordered to be sold, the referee shall report 6816-
the same tothe Court, with adescri tion. of the. different par-
cels of land sold to each-purchaser; tie name of the purchaser;
the price paid or accrued; the terms and conditions of the sale;
and the securities, if any taken.‘ The report shall be filed in
the oEice of the Clerk of the County where the property is
situated‘. - - -‘ -' ' ' - '

' SEC. 297. If the sale beconfrrmed by the Court, an order Order“,
shall be entered directing the referees to execute conveyances gggggnce

hereby authorized to o. Suchtorder may also give directions

-to them respectin the disposition.’ of the proceeds of the sale.

«SEc.»298. . hen a party. entitled to a share of the“
pro erty, or an incumbrancer entitled to have- his lien paid out ena°i'1‘e§° :3” i
of 9 sale, becomes a purchaser, the referees may take his ;*:,=,;g,,,,
receipt for so much of the proceeds of the sale as belongs to

-him

..SEc.- 299- The conveyances shall be recorded in the Conveyance,

' County where the premises -are situated, and shall. be-a bar ggggga,

ainst all rsons mterested in the roperty in an way, who and etrecto
all have een‘named as ‘parties in Elie action, andyagamst all
such arties and rsons. as were unknown, if the summons

have» eln. serve by publication and against all persons
claiming from them or elther of them. ' »

- SEC. 300. When there are proceeds of a sale belonging Proceeds

to an unknown owner, or to a person without the Territo , ,‘,’.§”,i’,‘,’.%'§,‘},‘;,,,
whohas no legal representative within it, the same, shall °Wn°r°-

invested in securities of interest for the benefit of the persons w

. entitled thereto. .

« SEC. 301. When the security of ‘the roceeds, of . the sale
is taken, or when an investment of an suc proceeds is made, Some-
it shall be done, except as herein ot ; rwise provided, in the
name of the Clerk of the County ‘where the papers are filed,
and his successors in oiice, who shall hold the same for the
use and benefit of the parties interested, subject ,to the order
of the Court. . » ' ' .r-

74 . LAWS- or. UTAH. ' 0

swumyby SEC. 302. When securi is taken by the referees on a
referees on sale, and the parties interests ‘in such security, b ‘an instru-
" °' - ment in writing. under their hands delivered to t referees,

agree upon‘ the- shares‘ and’ gortions to which they are respec-
tively entitled; or-- when v ares and proportions have been
previously adjudged by the Court, such securities shall be
taken in the names of and payable to, the parties respectively
entitled thereto; and shall be delivered to such parties u on
their receipt therefor. Such ement and receipt sh be
returned and filed with the Cler . ‘
SEC. 303. The Clerk in whose name. a security is taken,
Same or by whom an investment is m'ade,'and his successors in ofiice
shall receive the interest and‘ principal as it becomes due, and
a ply- and invest the same as the Court may direct, and shall
ii e in his office all securities taken, and keep an ‘account in a.
book provided and keplit for that purposein the Clerk’s office,
free for inspection by-a 1 persons, of investments and moneys
received by him thereon, and the disposition thereof.
compemuon SEC. 304. When it appears that partition cannot be made
when-' equally between the partiesaccordin to-their respective ' ‘ts,

without prejudice to the rights an interest of some of t em, .

and a petition be ordered by judgment, the Court may adjudge
compensation to be made by one arty to another, on account
of the inequality of partition. ut such compensation shall
not be required to be made to others by owners unknown, nor
by minors, unless in case. of a minor it appear that he has
personalwsroperty suflicient for that purpose, and that. his
interest be romoted thereby.

SEC. 305. en the share of a minor is sold, the pro-
 og ceeds of the sale may be paid, by the referee making the sale,
gg;r§ag'g;°§_ to his general guardian orspecial guardian appointed forhim

- ‘ in the action, upon 'ving the security required by law or

directed by order of t e Court.

SEC. 306. The guardian who may be entitled to the
Insane person - . . . . . .

other person adjudged incapable of conductin his ownaffairs,
whose interest in real property’ shall have n sold, may
receive, in behalf of such rson, his share of the proceeds of
such real property, from t e referee, on executin , with suiii-
cient sureties, an undertakin a proved by the udge of the
Court, that he will faithful y ischarge the trust reposed in
him, and will: render a true and just account to the person
entitled, or to his legal representative.»

SE0. 307. The neral  of a minor and the
pauuon m. guardian entitled to t e custo y and management of the estate
{>,§,;°;98,g§,_ of an insane person, or other person adjudged incapable of ,
dun» conducting his own affairs, who is-interested in real estate held

in joint tenancy, or in common, or in any other manner so as
to authorize his being made a party to an action for the parti-
tion thereof, ma consent to a artition without action, and
agree upon the s are to be set 0 to such minor, or other per-
son entitled, and may execute a release in his behalf to the
owners of the shares of the parts to which they may be
respectively entitled, upon an order of the Court.

custody and management of the estate» of an insane person, or .

NINETEENTH sEssIoN. 75

SEC. 308. The costs of partition, including fees of referees coma“
and other disbursements, shall be paid b the parties respec- partition-
tively entitled to share in the lands divi ed, in proportion to -
their respective interests therein, and may be included and
specified in the judgment. In that case they shall be a lien
on the several shares, and the judgment ma be enforced by
execution egainst such shares, and against ot er property held
by the respective arties. When, however, a litigation arises
between some of t e parties only, the Court may require the
expenses of such litigation to be paid by the parties thereto, ’ .
or any of them. ‘ 1 ' '

SEC. 309. The Court, with the consent of the parties, n13ay.s1ng]e1-eferee
appoint a. single referee, instead of three referees, in the pro- ;'g;{)g1°m_
ceedings under the provisions of this Chapter, and the single
referee, when thus appointed ,' shall have all the powers and
perform all the duties required of the three referees.

SEC. 310. When the action is for partition of a mining mm mm
claim among the tenants in common, joint tenants, coparceners part! on of.
or partners thereof, the Court, upon good cause shown by any
party or arties in interest, may, instead of ordering partition
to be m e in manner as hereinbefore provided, or a sale of
the premises for cash, direct the referees to divide the claim in
the manner hereinafter specified. . A

SEC. 311. The Court shall, in its order, or by a subse-
que nt order made upon motion, fix the time for division of the °"1°'°‘ °°‘“"°
claim by the referees, which shall not be less than twenty nor
more than forty days from the day of the making the order,
except by consent of all the parties in interest who have ap- .
peared in the action.

SEC. 312. On the day designated in the order,the referees Rem“ to
shall go upon the claim to be divided, and proceed to make on own. ‘°
division of the same as hereinafter provided, and shall con-
tinue from day to day until the whole business is completed.

SEC. 313. Two or more of the tenants in common, joint Pa:-use may
tenants, co artners or parceners ma unite together for the “"“°°-
purpose 0 such division of which t ey shall give the referees
written notice before they commence the business of division;
and all who do not unite as aforesaid, or give notice of se arate

action, shall, for the pu oses of division, be deemed an held
to have united. The re erees in their action shall recognize

A those named in the order of the Court, or their agents and

attorneys in fact, duly appointed by instrument in writing

under seal, and acknowle ged as in cases of conveyances of

real estate, the guardian of a minor, and. the guardian entitled

to the custody and management of the estate of an insane

person or other person adj udged incapable of conducting his

own a airs, and as to the interest of each, shall be controlled
entirely by the order of the Court. 1

SEC. .314. At the time and place of division, one of the §§;g§t°;g’°e

referees to be selected by them, shall, in the manner of public of location.
‘auction, offer to the party or parties who will take the least

part or portion of sald mining claim in proportion to the inter-

est he or they may have therein, the privilege of first selecting

76

Same.

Parties
remaining.

LAWS OF UTAH.

the place at which his portion shall be located, and upon
closing the bids the referees shall roceed to measure and
mark off, by distinct metes and boun s, to the lowest bidder,
his or their portion of said mining claim, at the tplace desig-
nated by them or him, according to the terms o his or their

bid. - _

SEC. 315. When the referees have marked off and set
apart the interest of the lowest bidder, as provided in the last
Section, they shall offer to the remaining parties the rivilege
of selection, as in said Section mentioned and descri d, and
shall, upon closin the bids, proceed in the same manner to

locate and mark 0 the ortion of the lowest bidder, and shall

‘thereafter continue in t e same manner to receive bids and

mark off the interest of the bidder or bidders until there shall
-remain but one part in interest, or parties united, forming one
interest, as provide in Section Three Hundred and Thirteen.

SEC. 316. The arty or parties remaining, as provided in

the last Section, sha become the owner or owners, as the case

A may be, offthe entire claim not marked off and set apart to

Evidence to
be returned.

Actions or

usurpa n of

office, etc.

Com lainty
wha. to state.

other parties as hereinbefore provided, in proportion , to their
respective interests in the claim. ' i .

SEC. 317. The referees shall return, with their report in
this Act required to be made by them, the evidences of authority
presented to them b persons other than.the arties mentioned
111 the order of the ourt, by which they c aim the ri ht to
bid, or otherwise act, during the proceedings herein efore
mentioned.

CHAPTER 5.—ACTIONS FOR THE USURPATION or AN Orrron
t on FRANCHISE.

s SEC. 318. An action may be brought by the Attorney-
General in the name of the people of this Territory upon his
own information, or on the complaint of a rivate party,
against any erson who usurps, intrudes into, olds or exer-
c1ses any 0 ce, or franchise, real or pretended, within this
Territory, without authority of law. , And it shall be the duty
of the Attorney-General to brin the action whenever he has
reason to believe that any suc ofiice or_ franchise has been
usurped, intruded into, held or exercised by any person, with-

V out authority of law.

SEC. 319. Whenever such action is brou ht,the Attorney-
General, in addition to the statement 0 the cause of
action, may also set forth in the complaint the name of the

erson rightly entitled to the oflice, with a statement of

is right thereto; and in such case, upon proof b «atiidavit
that the defendant has received fees or emoluments elonging
to the oflice, and b means of usurpation thereof, anorder may
be granted by the udge, or Court wherein the case is ending,
for the arrest of such defendant, and holding him to ail; and
thereupon he ma be arrested and held to ail, in the same
manner and -wit the same effect, and subject to the same

NINETEENTH SESSION. . '77

7

rights and liabilities as in other civil actions where the defend- $’;9gg3nt
ant is subject to arrest. . arrested.

SEC. 320. In eve such case judgment may be rendered Judgment,
upon the right of the efendant, and also upon the right of 11°" 1‘°nd°’°°-
the arty so alleged to be entitled; or only upon the right of
the efendant, as justice shall require.

SEO. 321. If the judgment be rendered upon the right of
the person so alleged to be entitled, and the same be in favor gfgggfgwn
of such erson, he shall be entitled, after taking the oath of omee.
ofiice an executing such official bond as may be required by
law, to take_upon himself the execution of the oiiice. -

SEC. 322. If j d ent be rendered upon the right of the Damages
person so alleged to entitled, in favor of such person, he recoverable. ‘
may recover, by action, the damages which he shall -have sus-
tained by reason of the usurpation of the oflice by the defendant.

SEC. 323. When several persons claim to be entitled to §.}ggrtg,°IfM
the same office or franchise, one action may be brou ht against be tried in
all such ersons, in order to try their respective rig ts to such °"° “°“°°'
odice or ranchise. '

SEC. 324. When a defendant, against whom such action
has been brought, is adjudged guilty of usurping, or intruding Judgment,
into, or unlawfully holding any office, franchise or priv1- ,‘;‘{,‘;°{,‘.‘,‘,°‘°““'
lege, 'udgment shall be rendered that such defendant be ggguggdw
exclu ed from the onice, franchise or privilege, and that he
pay the costs of theraction. The Court may, also, in its dis-
cretion, im ose upon the defendant a fine not exceeding five
thousand ollars, which line, when collected, shall be paid

into the Treasury of the Territory.

TITLE IX.
0] Appeals in Givil Actions.
CHAPTER 1.—-APPEALS IN GENERAL.

SEC. 325. A judgment or order in a civil action, except Judgment,
when expressly made iinal by this Act, may be reviewed as ,’,‘§,;'f.,,,ed,
prescribed by this Title, and not otherwise.

SEC. 326. An order made out of Court, without notice to Order h
the adverse party, ma be vacated or modified without notice, may be °'
by the Judge who ma e it, or may be vacated or modified on "“°“°°'
,noticSe, in $15; mantrier in which otheé motions arel made;

EC. . art ‘eve ma a pea in t e cases
prescribed in this «life. ¥1'ba§'(’§§..ny appe)aliI11)g shall be known §§e’§S';ee
as the appellant, and the adverse party as the res ondent. i

SEC. 328. An appeal may be taken: First— mm a final In what cm,
judgment in an action or special proceeding commenced in the an apgaaalk
Court in which the judgment is rendered, within one year after my °"’
the rendition of judgment. Second—-From a judgment ren-
dered: on an a peal from an inferior Court, within ninety days
after the ren 1tion of the judgment. Third-—From an order
granting or refusing a new trial, from an order granting or

issolving an injunction, from an order refusing to grant or

78‘

now made.

Statement on’
appeals.

Waiver of.

Time
enlarged.

How
certined.

LAWS on UTAH. - i

dissolve an injunction, and from any special order made after
the final judgment, within sixty days after the order is made
and entered in the minutes of the Court. Fourth-\—From an
interlocutory judgment or order in cases of rtition which
determines the right of the several parties, an directs parti-
tion, sale or division to be made, within sixty days after the
rendition of the same. . .

SEC. 329. The a peal shall be made by filing with the
Clerk of the Court wit whom the judgment or order appealed
from is entered, a notice stating the appeal from the same, or
some specific part thereof, and servmg a copy of the notice
upon t e adverse y or his attomei. .

SEC. 330. hen the party who as the right to ap eal
wishes a statement of the case to be annexed to the reco of
the judgment or order, he shall,  twenty days after the
entry of such judgment or order, pre are such statement,-
which shall state specifically the part1c ar errors or grounds
upon which he intends to rely on the appeal, and shall con-
tain so much of the evidence as may be necessary to explain
the articular errors or grounds s iiied and no more, and
shal file the sa.me with the Gler , and serve a COPY thereof
upon the adverse party. The respondent may, within five
da s thereafter, prepare and tile amendmentstothe statement,
and shall serve a copy thereof on the appellant; the statement
and amendments shall be presented to the Judge or referee
who tried or heard the case, upon notice of two days to the
respondent, and a true stateent shall thereupon be settled
by such Judge or referee. If no amendments are iiled, the
statement may be presented to the Judge or referee for settle-
ment without any notice to the respondent. .

SEC. 331. If the arty shall omit to make a statement
within the time limite , he shall be deemed to have waived his
right thereto; and when a statement is made and the parties
shall omit within the several times above limited, the one party
to propose amendments, the other to notify an appearance
before the Judge ‘or referee, theyshall respectively be deemed,
the former to have agreed to the statement as prepared, and
the latter to have agreed to the amendments ‘as proposed; but
the Judge or referee, who tried or heard the case, shall, not-
withstanding such omission or implied agreement, have power
to correct any mistatement of his rulings which such statement
may contain. . j i _ ‘
SEC. 332. The several periods of time above limited may
be enlarged, upon good cause shown, by the Judge before
whom the cause was tried. . 4

SEC. 333. The statement, when settled by the Judge or
referee, shall be signed by him, with‘ his certificate that the
same has been allowed and is correct. , When the statement is
agreed upon by the parties, the or their attorneys shall sign
the same, with their certificate t at it has been reedupon ,
them and is correct. In either case, when sett ed or agree
upon,it shall "be filed with the Clerk. .1 : _ j .

SEC. 334. ' A copy of the statement shall be annexed to a

NINETEENTH snssxorr. C 79

copy of the 'udgment roll if ‘the appeal be from a judgment °ggY;° ‘)9

if the appe be from an order, to a cog of such order. ’ a 8 ed
SEC. 835. The rovisions of the st ‘five preceding Sec-

tions . shall not a p y to ‘a als taken from an ‘order made °°"““‘”‘-’°'

tions not to

uponafiidavit file , butlsuc atlidavit shall be annexed to the apply to 89-

order, -in the place of the statement mentioned in those t’§33.f’°m
Sections; . -

SEC’. 836. Upon an appealfrom ‘a 'u_dgment, the Court Rmew of

i may review any -intermediate orders invo vm'g- the merits and 319 318 mm

u gment.

necessarily affecting the judgment. .

SEC. 337. Upon an appeal from a judgment or order,
the Appellate Court may reverse, afdrm or modify the judg- Sme-
ment. or order a pealed from, in the res ct mentioned in the
notice of ap , and asto an orall o the arties; and may
set aside, or con1irm,.or»modi y,.=any or all e the proceedings
subject to or dependant ‘upon such judgment or order, and
may, if necessary or proper, order a new trial. When the
judgment or order. -is: reversed or modiiied, the Appellate
Court’ may make complete restitution of all property and
rights lost by ‘the erroneous judgment or order, and when it
apgears to the A pellate Court that the appeal was made ‘for,

d , it may ad to the costs such damages as may be just,
not exceeding ten per cent. r .

SEO. 638. On “an appeal 'from a final judgment, the futvuggt
a pellant shall furnish the Court witha transcript of the notice we '
o appeal," and -the -statement, ‘if there be one, -certified by the
respective attorneys ' of the parties to the ap al, or by the
Clerk of the Court. r On~an~appeal from a judgement rendered
on an ap ea] or from an order, the appellant shall furnish the
Court "wit a. cogy of -the notice’ of agpeal, the judgment or
order ‘appealed m, and a copy of t e papers used on the -
hearing of ‘the Court below, such copies to be certified in -like
manner to be correct. ~ If any xw-ritten '0' inion be placed-on tile
in rendering judgment or making the to b er in the Court below,

a co yshall be nfumished; certitded -in like ‘manner. If the

appe. ‘ntfail to‘ furnish the requisite ‘papers, the .-appeal may
""’d§"m“”d' T a C al if alf

EC. 339. o ren er anva e ectu or an _ u se, Undertaking,

in any case, a written undertggieng-, shall be execuytgd. cllllimtshe

part of the a llant, by at- least two sureties, to the effect

that the appe ant will;pay~al-1-dam s and - costs which may

{be awarded againstlhim on the appe or a sum not exceeding

‘one hundred dollars ‘shall be: deposited with the Clerk with

whom the jud ent or order was entered, to abide the eventof

-the appeal. ucha undertaking“ shall be filed, or such deposit

mag? (vivith the Clerk, ‘within five days after the notice of appeal

is e . . ~ » . ~ . _ ~

SEC.. 340. 'If~the . a peal be from a judgment or order §ffg(')gf);x°'
directing’ the ' yment .0 money-, it shall‘ not stay the execu- judgment,
tion~of~ »the.ju gment -or order,’ unless a written undertaking °‘°" "‘°'
be executed on the; art of the a pellant b two or more sure-
eties,-stating their .p aces of resi ence an occupation, to the

effect that they are bound in double the amount named in the

‘ sha

Assi nment
or de very or
documents.

Execution of
conveyance,
etc.

Sale or
delivery of

property, etc:

Appeal
perfected
to stay

ggoceedings
low-

Court upon the

‘provide or the aym

LAWS OF UTAH. J

judgment or order; that if the judgment or order ap ealed
from, or any part thereof be adirmed, the -a pellant sha 1 pay
the amount directed to be paid by the ju gment or order, or
the “part of such amount as to which the jud ent or order
J be atlirmed, if afiirmed only in part, an all damages‘
and costs which shall be awarded against the appellant .upon
the appeal. When the judgment or order appealed from is
made payable in a s eci ‘ed kind of money or currency, the
undertaking require by this Section shall be drawn and made
payable in the same kind of money or currency specified in
such judgment or order. . " = ~ . .
° SEC. 341. If the judgment or order appealedfrom, direct
the assignment or delivery of documents, or rsonall property,
the execution of the judgment or order shall not be ista ed by

_ appeal, unless the things required to be assigned or de ’vered

be placed in the custody of such oflicer or receiver as the Court
may a point, or unless an undertakingbe -entered into. on the
part 0 the appellant, with at least two sureties, and in such
amountfas the Court or the Judge thereof may direct, to. the
effect that the appellalit will obey the order of the Appellate
a pea . _ '

SEC. 342. I11) the judgment or order appealed from, direct
the execution of a conveyance or other mstrument, the ex-
ecution of the judgment or order shall not be stayed b
the a peal until the instrument is executed and deposite
with t e Clerk with whom the jud ment or order is entered,
to abide the judgment of the Appe late Court. . - .

- SEO. 343. If the judgmentor order appealed from, direct
the sale or delivery of ossession of real roperty, the execu-
tion of the same shal not be stayed unless a written under-
taking be executed on the part of the _a pellant, with two or
more sureties, to the effect, that during t e possession of such
property by the appellant, he will not commit, nor suffer to be
committed, any waste thereon, and that if the judgment be
afiirmed, he will pa the value of the use and occu ation of
the property from t e time of the appeal until the de ivery of
possession thereof, pursuant to the judgment or order, not
exceeding a sum to be iixed by the Judge of .the Court b
which the judgment was rendered or order made, and whic
shall be speci ed in the undertaking. When the judgment is
for the sale of mortgaged premises, and the payment for a
deficienc arising upon the sale, the undertakin ~ shall also
ent of such deficiency. n all other
cases, not herein fore mentioned, the amount of the under-
takin to stay the execution of the jud ment or order shall be
fixed%y the Court or the Judge thereo .

SEC. 344. Whenever an appeal is perfected, as provided
by the preceding Sections in this Chapter, it shall. stay all
further proceedings in the Court below, upon the judgment or
order appealed from, or upon matter embraced therein; but
the Court below may proceed upon any other matter included
in the action and not affected b the judgment or order ap-
pealed from. And the Court below may, in its discretion,

N1NErEENrH SESSION. 81

dispense with or limit the security re uired by said Sections,
when the appellant is an executor, a ministrator, trustee, or
other person acting in another’s right.

SEC. 345. The undertaking prescribed by Sections Three Undemun, '

Hundred and Thirt -Eight, Three Hundred and Thirt -Nine, ,!;;¢sS;vbe°rg}1_°
Three Hundred and orty, Three Hundred and Forty ne and
Three Hundred and Forty-Three, may be in one instrument or
several, at the option of the appellant.
SEC. 346. An undertakm upon an appeal shall be of no
effect unless it be accom auied%)y the aflidavit of the sureties
that they are each wort , the amount speciiied therein, over fu$_‘§,“.,§,“ef,2,'

C and above all their just debts and liabilities, exclusive of the

property exem tfrom execution, except where the judgment
exceeds three t ousand doHars and the undertaking on ap eal
is executed by more than two sureties, they may state on t 1eir ‘
aflidavit that they are severally worth amounts less than that
expressed in the undertaking, if the whole amount be equiva-
lent to that of two suflicient sureties. The adverse party may,
however, except to the sufficiency of the sureties within five
days after the filing of the undertaking, and unless they, or
other sureties, 'ustify before the Judge of the Court below, or
Clerk, within ve days thereafter, upon notice to the adverse
arty, to the amounts stated in their affidavits, the appeal shall
Ea regarded as if no such undertaking had been given; and in '

. all cases where an undertaking is required on a peal by the

provision of this Chapter, a deposit in the Court low of the

amount of the jud ment appealed from, and one hundred ' . _
S .

dollars in addition, 11 be equivalent to tiling the undertak-
ing, and  all cases the undertaking or deposit may be waived

. . c Three
by t1s§;§Vn3t§§n clgseclgsgi tiibet r:)si'Id(1)rIi1d.1(=.E-adl tfor in Se tions
Hundred and Thirty-Nine, Three Hundred and Forty, Three i§£t’§3ltop3Pmy
Hundred and Forty-One and Three Hundred and Forty-Three, ¥,.h.,.,, . .
the perfecting of an appeal by giving the undertaking, and the
just1f1_cation of the _suretie.s thereon, if uired, or makin the
§§££Sé§a”§e“f$%3°3at“ §"£‘t%“ 33$’; £31’; udt?II1ldt.hTh'1f1t ' “ii

p e g e w p e e
or order appealed from, except that where it directs t e sale of
perishable pro rty the Court below may order the property
to be sold, an the Eroceeds thereof to be deposlted to ab1de
the j gldgment of Xhe pellatebCq)urt.  h b
_ E0, 348. - ppea s may e roug t to a earing yeither ,
t arty upon at I1Ol3l1(136 ogzhreg dlays  tllllexep sittfl partya tlgeforte Hearing, etc.
e argumen eac pa y s a urn1s e 0 er an eac

of the Justices, a copy of his points and authority, or either
party may file one copy thereof with the Clerk, who shall
causg the reqtlisjjtéalfaopies to be made. d d ‘

E0. 349. en ‘u m nt is ren ere u on th a u ,,
it shall be certified by l]:h<(a1gCleEi'k of the Suprenlle Couit  gndagrlnvgai «
Clerk with whom the judgment roll is filed or the order
appealed from is entered. In cases of a eal from the judg-
ment the Clerk with whom the roll is ed, shall attach the

certificate to the judgment roll, and enter ,a minute of the
F

82 Ilxws on any.

‘ judgment of the Supreme Court on the docket against the
original entry. In case of appeal from an order, the Clerk
shall enter at length in the records of the Court the certiiicate
received, and minute against the ent of the order appealed
from a reference to the certificate, wit a brief statement that
the order has been amrmed, reversed or modjiled, as the case
may be, by the Sn reme Court, on appeal.

mwuuon for SEC. 350. W enever costs are awarded to a party by an
00% Appellate Court, such party may have an execution for the
same on filing a remittitur with the Clerk of the Court below,
and it shall be the duty of such Clerk, whenever the remittitur
is filed, to issue the execution upon application therefor and
whenever costs are awarded to a party by an order of any
Court, such party may have __an execution therefor in like man-

ner as upon a judgment.

TITLE X.
Miscellaneous .Proceedings.
CHAPTER 1.—PROCEEDINGS AGAINST J omr Dnnrons.

How those not . SEC. 351. “Then a judgment is recovered against_one or
geggneg guy he more of several persons jointly indebted ppon an obligation,
Judgment. by proceedmg as rov1ded in Section Thirty-Two, those who

..were not origin y served with the summons and did not

‘ appear to the action, may be summoned to show cause why

they should not be bound by the jud ment in the same
manner as though they had been origin y served with the

summons.

§g:;,mg,ng,*g SEC. 352. The summons, as provided in the last Section,
‘shall describe the judgment and require the person summoned
to show cause why he should not be bound by it, and shall be

served in the , same manner and returnable within the same ‘

time as the ori “’ al summons. It shall not be necessary to

iile a new comp aint.
SEC. 353. The summons shall be accompanied by an

Sam“ aliidavit of the plaintiff, his agent, representative or attorney,

‘ that the judgment, or some part thereof, remains unsatisfied,
and shall specif the amount due thereon. - -

Answer and SEC. 354. pon such summons, the defendant may

"°_‘°""°° answer Within the time s ecifled therein, denying the judg- -

ment, or setting up any de nse which ma have arisen subse-
quently, or he may deny his liability on t e obligation upon
. which the judgment was recovered. ,

SEC. 355. If the defendant in his answer, deny the judg-
ygglggm ment, or set up any defense. which may have arisen subse-
cliiggigft quently, the summons, with the adidavit annexed, and the

’' answer, shall constitute the written allegations in the case.‘ If
he deny his liabilit on the obligation upon which the judg-
ment was recovere , a copy of the original complaint and the
summons, with the aflidavit annexed, and the answer, shall

constitute such written allegations.

D

NINETEENTH sEssIoN. 83

SEC. 356. The issues formed may be tried as in other Issues
cases, but when the defendant denies, in his answer, any ggxéraxed. how
liability on the obligation 11(¥)OI]. which the jud ent was ren- ‘
dered, if a verdict be foun against him, It s all be for the

amount remaining unsatisned on such original judgment, with
interest thereon. A ,

CHAPTER 2.—CoNEEssIoN OF JUDGMENT WITHOUT ACTION.

SEC. 357. A jud ent by confesssion may be entered
without action, either or money due or to become due, or to $3“ essi3§.by
secure an person against contingent liabilit on behalf of the ‘WW °nt°’°°-
defendan , or both, In the manner prescribe by this Chapter.

SEC. 358. A statement in writing shall be made, signed Statement in
b the defendant and verified b his oath, to the following Fad?‘ ‘° "°

- e ect: First-—It shall authorize he entry of judgment for a

(slpeciiied sum. Second—-If it be money due, or to become

ue, it shall state concisely the facts out of which it arose,

and shall show that the sum confessed therefor is justly due,

or to become due. Third-If it be for the purpose of securing

the plaintiff against a contingent liability, it shall state .con-

cisely the facts constituting the liability, and shall show that

the sum confessed therefor does not exceed the same. 1

SEC. 359. The statement shall be filed with the Clerk of med with

the Court in which the judgment is to be entered, who ‘shall Clerk of
endorse upon it, and enter in the judgment book, a. 'udgment °°“"“'
of such Court for the amount confessed, with five do ars costs.

The judgment and affidavit, with the judgment indorsed, shall
thereupon become the judgment roll.

CHAPTER 3.-6-‘-SUBMITTING A CONTROVERSY WITHOUT
ACTION. "

SEC. 360. Parties to a question in difference, which might
be the subject of a civil action, may, without action, agree Subtrlngsseion of
upon a case containing the facts upon which the controversy %‘t'nou‘1';a’2§on
depends, and resent a submission of the same to any Court
which should . ave jurisdiction if an action had been brought.
But it must ap ar, by aflidavit, that the controversy is real,
and the procee in s in good faith, to determine the rights of
the parties. The ourt shall thereupon hear and determine
the (pass, and render judgment thereon, as if an action were
pen in . H - '
SE§. 361. Judgment shall be entered in the judgment
book, as in other cases, but without costs for any proceeding
prior to the trial. The case, the submission, and a copy of the
judgment shall constitute the 'udgment roll. : , I, -
‘ SEC. 362. The judgmen may be enforced in the same How enforced
manner as if it hadbeen rendered in an action,and shall be

in the same manner subject to appeal.

J udgment.
how entered.

3; LAWS or UTAH.

CHAPTER 4.—-Or Annirnxrrons.

A bi ti , SEC. 363. Persons capable_of contracting, may submit to
suiannixr.-"s:o3§"c3r. arbitration any controversy which might be the subject of a
civil action between them, except a uestion of title to real
= property in fee or for life. This quali cation shall not include
questions relating merely to the partition or boundaries of real
ro erty. , .
3°“ m“°°‘ P PSEC. 364. The submission to arbitration shall be ‘in writ-
ing, and may be to one or more persons.
SEC. 365. It may be stipulated in the submission that it
ts13zT3’r.'°'°°a° be entered as an order of the Court, for which purpose it shall
be filed with the Clerk of the Court where the parties, or one
of them, reside. The Clerk shall thereupon enter in his regis-
terof actions a note of the submission, with the names of the
parties, the names of the arbitrators, the date of the submission,
' , when filed, and the time limited b the submission, if any,
within which the award shall be ma e. ' When so entered, the
submission shall not be revoked without the consent of both
parties. The arbitrators may be compelled b the Court to
make an award, and the award may be enforce by the Court
in the same manner as a judgment. . If the submission be not
made an order of the Court, it may be revoked at any time
before the award is made.
gmgggfi SEC. 366. Arbitrators shall have power to appoint a time
and place for hearing, to adjourn from time to time, to admin-
ister oaths to witnesses, to hear the allegations and evidence of
tlfe parties, and to make an award thereon.
Proceedings SEC. 367. All the arbitrators shall meet and act to ether
of. during the investigation, but when met, a majority may eter-
mine any question. Before acting, they shal be sworn before
an officer authorized to administer oaths, faithfully and fairly
‘ to hear and examine the allegations and evidence of the parties
in relation to the matters in controversy, and to make a just
award accordingrtlo their understanding. ‘ , 6
;,‘,§§',‘;§"};,,‘;‘;§'0f SEC. 368. e award shall be in writing, signed by the
arbitrators, or a majority of them, and delivered to the parties.
VVhen the submission is made an order of the Couit, the award
shall be filed with the Clerk, and a note thereof, made in his
register. After the expiration of five days from the filing of
the award, upon the application of a party, and on filing an
afiidavit showing that notice of filing the award has been
served on the adverse party or his attorney, at least four days
prior to such application, and that no order sta 'ng the entry
of judgment ‘has been served, the award shal be entered by
the Clerk in the judgment book, and shall thereupon have
the effect of a judgment. '

on what SE0. 369. The Court, on motion, may vacate the award
grounds upon an of the following grounds, and may order a new
vacated., .

hearing, fore the same arbitrators, or others, in its discretion:
First-—That it was procured by corruption or fraud. Second——

NINETEENTH sEssioN. t 85/

That the arbitrators were ~ guilty of misconduct or committed
gross error in refusing, on cause shown, to postpone the hear-
mg, or in refusing to hear pertinent evidence, or otherwise
acted improperly, in a manner by which the rights of the party
were prejudiced- Third-—That the arbitrators exceeded their
powers in makingtheir award; or that they refused, or im-
pro rly omitted to consider apart of the matters submitted

T to t em; or that the award is indeiinite, or cannot be per-

formed.

SE0. 370. The Court ma , on motion, modify or correct
the award where it appears: ' st-—That there was a miscalcu- On what
lation in ii ures» upon which it was made, or that. there is a {°,',“,‘,’,‘1’i’,i‘,’,3,
mistake in t e description of some rson or property therein.
Second—When a part of the awarcfxias upon matters not sub-
mitted, which part can be separated from other parts, and does
not affect the decision on the matter submitted. Third—When
the award, thou h imperfect in form, could have been
amenged if it ha been a verdict, or the imperfection disre-
garde .

SEC. 371. The decision upon a motion shall be subject to ‘1’P°"°
appeal in. the same manner as an order which is subject to
appeal in a civil action; but the judgment entered before a
motion is made shall not be subject to appeal.

SEC. 372. If a submission to arbitration be revoked, and ,9.;‘,3,'{,‘},$,§‘°“
action be brought therefor, the amount to be recovered shall amount

only be the costs and damages sustained in preparing for and r°°°vmm°'
attending thearbitration. *

CHAPTER 5.—OFFER or THE DEFENDANT To COMPROMISE
- THE WHOLE on A PART OF AN AcTIoN.

SEC. 373. The defendant may, at aiiiiiy time before the.

trial or judgment, serve upon the plaint an offer to allow f,’,‘.§§’,§',,*,§,°,‘}§,‘§‘,o

judgment to be taken against him for the sum, or property or Dreiudice

to the effect therein specified. If the plaintiff acce t the offer,
and give notice thereof within five days, he may fi e the sum-
mons, complaint and offer, with an afiidavit of notice of
acceptance, and the Clerk shall thereupon enter judgment
accordin ly. If the notice of acceptance be not given, the
offer shagll be deemed withdrawn, and shall not be given in
evidence; and if the plaintiff fail to obtain a more favorable
judgment, he shall not recover costs, but shall pay the defend-
ant’s costs from the time of the offer. a

TITLE XI. L
Of Witnesses, and of the Manner of Obtaining Evidence.
CHAPTER 1.—OF WITNESSES.

SEC. 374. All rsons, without exception, otherwise than Wggngsgeese.
as specified in this C apter, may be witnesses in any action or “' ’

86 - LAWS ‘or UTAH.

proceeding. Facts which, by the common law, would cause
the exclusion of witnesses maystill be shown for the purpose
of affecting‘ their credibility.
who not - SEC. 375. -No person shall be disqualified as a witness in
d1s<1ua1i11ed- any action or roceeding on account of his opinions on ‘matters
of religious be ief, or by reason of his interest in the event of
the action or proceeding as a party thereto or otherwise; but
the party or parties thereto, and the person in whose behalf
such action, or proceeding ma be brought or defended, shall,
exceptas hereinafter excepte , be competent and be compella-
ble to give evidence, either viva ooce or by de osition, orupon
a commission, in the same manner and sub ect to the same
rules of examination as other witnesses, on behalf of himself;
or either or any of theparties to the action or roceeding.
Rgfuggl 1,, SEC. 376. If a party refuse to attend an testify at the
- _ trial, or to give his de osition before trial, or upon a commis-
sion when required, is complaint, answer, or repl maybe
stricken out and judgment be taken against him; an he may
be also, in the discretion of the Court, proceeded against, as in
other cases, for a contempt.

Whomu not‘ SEC. 377. No person shall be allowed totestify under the

testify, etc. provisions of Section Three Hundred and Seventy-Five,
when the other party to the transaction, or op osite part
in the action, or the party for whose imm iate bene t
the action or proceeding is prosecuted or defended, is
the re resentative of a deceased erson, when the facts to be
prove transpired before the deat of such deceased rson,
and nothing contained in said Section shall affect the aws in
relation to attestation of any instrument required to be attested.

SEC. 378. Persons against whom judgment has been ren-
§,';,h,<;,,:gg;},;;9t dered upon a conviction for felony, unless pardoned by the
Governor, or such judgment has been reversed on appeal, shall

—A not be witnesses. ’

s,m,_  SEC. 379. A husband shall not be a witness for, or
against, his wife, nor a wife a witness for, or against, her hus-
band; nor can either, during the marriage or afterwards, be,
without the consent of the other, examined as to any commu-
nication made by one to. the other during the marriage. But
this exception shall not apply to an action or proceeding by
one against the other. .

Same. SEC. 380. An attorney, or counselor shall not, without
the consent of his client, be examined as a witness as to any
communication made by the client to him, or his advice given
thereon, in the course of professional employment.

Same. SEC. 381. A clergyman or priest shall not, without the
consent of the person making the confession, be examined as
a witness as to any confession made to him in his professional
character, in the course of discipline enjoined by the church to
which he belongs. A

“ma SEC. 382. A licensed physician or surgeon shall not,
without the consent of his patient, be examined as a witness
as to any information ac uired in attending the atient, which
was necessary to enable im to prescribe or act or the patient:

NINETEENTH s1‘-sssrorv. A 87

provided, however, in any suit or prosecution against a physi-

cian or surgeon for malpractice, if the patient or party sueing

or rosecuting shall require or give such consent, and any

suc witness shall give testimony, then such physician or

surgeon, defendant, may call any other physicians or surgeons

as witnesses on behalf. of defendant, without the consent of

such patient or party sueing or prosecuting. A
SEC. 383. A public officer shall no be examined as a s,,,,,.,_

witness as to communications made to him in oflicial confi-

dence, when the ublic interest would suffer by the disclosure.

. SEC. 384. e Judge himself, or. any juror, may be Judge or
called as a witness b either party, but in such case it shall be 133;;-ggg b“
in the discretion of t e Court, or Judge, to order the trial tobe
postponed, or suspended, and to take place before another

ud e or jury. ’

no. 385. When a witness does not speak or understand I,,,,,,p,,,,,,,,,
the English language, an interpreter shall be sworn to inter-
pret for him. An gerson resident of the County may be
summoned by any u ge or Court to appear before such Judge
or Court to act as interpreter in any action or proceeding.
The summons shall be served and returned in like manner as
a subpoena. Any person so summoned shall, for a failure to
atten at the time and place named in the summons, be liable
to punishment for contempt.

CHAPTER 2.-—MANNER or COMPELLING THE Arrnwnwon
or WITNESSES, AND THEIR RIGHTS AND Durrns.

SEC. 386. Asubpcenamay re uire not only the attendance
of the rson to whom it is directe , at a C articular time and $,"L’£,2,°° °’
place o testify as a witness, but may so require him to gggtglqbgfg
ring with him any books, and papers, under his control, con-
tainmg business accounts or transactions of a pecuniary
character between the parties to the action, to be used as
evidence. No person shall be required to attend as a witness
before any Court, Judge, Justice, referee or other officer out of
the County in which he resides, unless the distance be less
than thirty miles from his place of residence to the County of
trial: promkled, that such witness shall have the right to Pr°V‘5°-
demand ayment in advance of his fees for one day’s attend-
ance, an his mileage to and from the place specified in the
subpaena. _
SEC. 387. The subpaana shall be issued as follows: ggggem how
First—To require attendance before a Court, it shall be issued '
in the name and under the seal of the Court, before which the
attendance is required. Second—To require attendance out of
Court, before a udge, Referee, Justice, or other officer author-
ized to administer oaths or take testimony in an matter under
the laws of this Territory, it_ shall be lssued y the Judge,
Referee, Justice, or other oflicer before whom the attendance
is required. Third—To require attendance before ‘a Commis-
sioner appointed to take testimony by a Court of a. foreign

, mws or nun.

country, or of the United States, or of any State, or of a Terri-
tory of the United States, or any Jud or Justice of the
Peace of this Territory, it may be issued y aJudge or Justice
of the Peace in places within their res tive jurisdictions,
with like power to enforce attendance an to punish contempt
of such subpaena, as such Judge or Justice could exercise if

~ the subpoena directed the attendance of the witness before his

Bowserved. '

Pa-eon:
presem
required to
W 9'0-

Duty 1
witnegs.

Disobedience
to subpoena.

Same.

Failure to

own Court, in a matter pendin therein.

SEC. 388. The service 0 a subpaana shall be made by
showing the original, and stating its substance to the witness,
‘or by reading it to him, giving or offering to him at the same
time, if demanded by him, the fees to w ich he is entitled for
traveling to and from the place designated, and one day’s
~attendance there. Such service ma be made by any person.

SEC. 389. If a witness conce himself, for the purpose
of evading the service of a subpaana upon him, he may, upon
plroof b affidavit of the concealment, and the matenalit of

's evi ence, be punished for contempt by any Court, or J u ge,
issuin the subpoena, and may be liable to all penalties pre-
scribe in Section Three Hundred and Ninety-Four.

SEC. 390. A person present in Court, or before a judicial
officer, may be required to testify in the same manner as if he
geare in attendance upon a subpoena issued by such Court or

cer.

SEC. 391. It shall be the duty of the witness, duly served
with a subpcena, to attend at the time a pointed, with any
papers under his or her control required y the subpoena, to
answer all pertinent and legal. questions, and, unless sooner
discharged, to remain until the testimony is closed.

SEC. 392. A witness shall answer questions legal and
pertinent to the matter in issue, though his answer may estab-

‘sh a claim against himself; but he need not give an answer
which will have a tendency to subject him to unishment for
a felony, nor need 've an answer which wil have a direct
tendency to degrade is character, unless it be to the very fact
in issue, or to a fact from which the fact at issue would be
presumed. But a witness shall answer asto the fact to his
previous conviction for felony. . ‘

SEC. 393. Disobedience to a subpoena, or a refusal to be
sworn, or to answer as a witness or to subscribe an aflidavit
or deposition when required, ma be punished as a contempt
by the Court or ofiicer issuing he sub na or requiring t e
witness to be sworn; and if the witness a party, his com-
plaint may be dismissed or his answer stricken out.

SEC. 394. A witness disobeying a subpcena shall also be
liable to forfeit, to the part aggrieved, a sum not exceeding
one hundred dollars, and s all pay all damages which he ma
sustain b the failure of the witness to attend, which forfei -
ure and amages may be recovered in a civil action.

SEC. 395. In case of failure of a witness to attend, the
Court or officer issuing the sub cena, upon proof of the service
thereof, and of the failure of t e witness, may issue a warrant
to the Sheriff of the County to arrest the witness and bring

mxmumru snssrox. . 89

him before the Court or ofhcer where his attendance was
required.

SEC. 396. If the witness be a. prisoner, confined in aconnneain
jail or prison within this Territory for any other cause than a 3”" °‘°'

_ sentence for felony, an order for his examination in the prison

upon de sition, or for his temporary removal and production
before a ‘ourt or ofiicer for the lpurpose of being orally exam-
ined, may be made by the Con or Judge thereof, in which
the action or special proceeding is pending. A

SEC. 397. Such order can only be made u n adidavit, Same.
showin the nature of the action or proceeding, t e testimony
expecte% from the witness and its materiality.

SEC. 398. If the witness be imprisoned in the County Sm,»
where the action or proceeding is pending, and for a cause
other than a sentence for felony, his production may be
required. In all other cases his examination, when allowed,
shall be taken u on deposition. ‘

SEC. 399. very person who has been in good faith served Witness
with a subpoena to attend as a witness before a" Court, Jud , }’§;}§‘,°{§,§§2._
Commissioner, referee or other rson, in a case where e
disobedience of the witness may punished as a contempt,
shall be exonerated from arrestin a civil action while going to
the place of attendance, necessarily remaining there and
returning therefrom.‘

SEC. 400. The arrest of a witness contrary to the last Liability or

Section shall be void; but an osioer shall not be liable to the :¥‘,g.?:, "W"? ‘T

Siarty for makin%the arrest in i norance of the facts creating
e exoneration, ut shall be lia le for any subsequent deten-
tion of the Barty, if such arty claim the exemption, and
make an afli av1t, stating: £irst—That he has been served
with a subpoena to attend as a witness before a Court; ofiicer
or other person, specifying the same, the place of attendance,
angl tlsie actéon E p1'(1)1cee}(3.iIlgiI1 wblgch tge subpcenia gashilssuedg
an , econ — at e as not 11 t us serve 's own
procurement, with the intention of avoiding an arrest.

CHAPTER 3.—-Oiv Arnmnvrrs.
A Amdavitahow

SEC. 401. An atlidavit to be used before any Court, taken.
Jud e or oificer of this Territory ma be taken before
an udge or Clerk of an Court, or any ustice of the Peace
or otary Public in this — erritory. _

SEC. 402. An ailidavit taken in a State, or in a. Territory In another
of the United States, to be used in this Territo , shall be s““°’°‘°'
taken before a Commissioner appointed by the vernor of
this Territory to take aflidavits and depositions in such State
or Territory, or before any Jud or Court of Record having a
seal: provided, that a Judge 0 a Court of this Territory shall

. have power to appoint a Special Commissioner for such

purpose. , . . g _
SEC. 403. An affidavit taken in a foreign country to be In foreign

used in this Territory shall be taken before an Embassador, °°““‘”~"-"’

90 . LAWS or UTAH.

Minister, or Consul of the Uted States, or before any Judge
of a Court of Record havin a seal in such foreign country.

How certified , ' SEC. 404. When an a davit is taken before a Judge of a

.‘,{,‘;°§,‘,‘§‘{‘,,°,’;_ Court in a State or in a Territory of the United States, or in a
foreign country, the enuineness of the signature of the Judge,
the existence of i the ourt, and the fact that such a Judge is a
member thereof, shall be certiiied by the Clerk of the Court,
under the seal thereof;

CHAPTER 4.—0F DEPOSITIONS TAKEN IN THIS TERRITORY.

SEC. 405. The testimony of a witness in this Territory
may be taken by deposition in an action at an time after the
ilgleggggigpng-58 service of the summons or the appearance 0 the defendant,
may be taken. and in a special roceeding, after a question of fact has arisen
therein in the ollowing cases: First-—When the witness is a
glarty to the action or proceeding, or a person for whose imme-
‘ate benefit the action or proceeding is prosecuted or defended.
Second.-—'When the witness resides out of the County in which
his testimony is to be used. Third—-When the witness is
about to leave the Count where the action is- to be tried, and
will probably continue a sent when the testimony is required.
Fourth—-—When the witness, otherwise liable to attend the trial,
is nevertheless too infirm to attend, or resides within the
County, but more than iifty miles from the place of trial.
SEC. 406. Either party may have- the deposition of a
5°’ ‘“‘‘°’‘’ witness in this Territory taken before an Judge or Clerk of a
Court, or any Justice of the Peace or otary Public in this
Territory, on serving upon the adverse part . previous notice
of the time and place of examination, toget er with a cop of
an afiidavit, showing that the case is one mentioned in the ast
Section. At any time during the forty da s immediately after
the service of summons by publication as been completed,
and at any time thereafter, when the defendant has not
appeared, and his residence is unknown to the plaintiff, the
notice required by this Section may be served u on the Clerk
of the Court where the action is pending. Suc notice shall
?be at least live days, and, ° in addition, one day for every
twenty-live miles of the distance of the place of examination
from the residence of the . erson u n whom the notice is
served, unless, fora cause s own, a udge by order prescribe
a shorter time. When ashorter time is prescribed, a copy of
the order shall be served with the notice. ' -
Sac. 407. Either party may attend such examination and
mm it put such questions, direct and cross, as may be proper. The
enmj°§,31on, eposition, when completed, shall be carefully read to the
°‘°- witness and corrected b him in any particular, if desired; it
shall then be subscribe by the witness, certiiied by the Judge
or odicer taking the deposition, inclosed in an envelope or
wrapper, sealed and directed to the Clerk of the Court in
which the action is pending, or to such person as the arties in
writing may agree upon, and either delivered by the udge or
ofiicer to the Clerk or such person, or transmitted «through the

NINETEENTH sxssrorr. 91

mail or by some safe private 0 portunity, and thereupon such
deposition may be used by eit er party upon the trial or other
proceeding against any party giving or receiving the notice,
subject to all legal exceptions‘. But if the parties attend at
the examination, no objection to the form of an interrogatory
shall be made at the trial, unless the same was stated at the
time of the examination. If the deposition be taken by reason
of the absence, or intended absence, from the County of the
Witness, or because he is too iniirm to attend, proof by amda-
vit or oral testimony shall‘ be made at ‘the trial that the witness
continues absent or infirm, to the best of the deponent’s know- ‘
ledge or belief. The de osition thus taken may be also read
in case of the death of t e witness. h

i SEC. 408. When a de sition has been once taken, it May beread

may be read in any stage ‘bf " he same action or proceedin by }'3Xri¥."°'
either party, and sha then be deemed the evidence 0 the

party reading it.

'5

CHAPTER 5. Or Dnposrrrorrs TAKEN our or '.1‘HIS_
- “ TERRITORY. - -

SEC. 409. The testimony of a witness out of this Terri- ;5,=§e:,:gg;!,,

tory may be taken by deposition in an action at any time after
the-service of the summons or the appearance of the defend-
ant, and in a special proceeding, at any time after a question
of facthas arisen therein. ' . _

S130. 410. The deposition of a witness out of this Terri- HOW Wien-
tor shall be taken upon commission issued from the Court,
un er the ‘seal of ‘ the Court, upon an order of the Jud e or
Court, on’ the a plication of either party, upon five days pre-
vious notice to t e other. It shall be issued to a person agreed
upon by the parties, or if the do notagree, to any Judge or
Justice of the Peace selected y the oflicer granting the com-
mission, or. to a Commissioner _ ap ointed by the Governor of
this Territory, to take affidavits an depositions in the States
or Territories. -

SEC. 411. Such proper interrogatories, direct and cross, Settling inter-
as the respective parties may prepare, to be settled, if ‘the ’°‘“°"‘°°'
parties disagree as to their form, by the Judge or ofiicer grant-
ing the order for the commission, at a day fixed’ in the order,
or at the time of - granting the order for commission, may be

annexed to the commission, or when the parties agree to that

mode, the examination may be without written interrogatories. Co I m
‘ SEC. 412. The commission shall authorize the Commis- what to ’
sioner to administer an oath to the witness, and to take his ‘““’°"”°‘
deposition in answer to the interrogatories, or when the exam-

ination is to be without interrogatories in respect to the ques-

tion in dispute, and to certif the deposition to the Court, in a

sealed envelope directed to t e Clerk or other erson designed

or agreed upon, and’ forwarded to him by mail) or other usual

channel of conveyance. '1

SEC. 413. ‘ Atrial or other proceeding shall not be post-

92 LAWS or UTAH.

. §gg,'=&n°nt poned by reason of a commission not returned, except upon

same. shall make an order

non-mm-n. evidence satisfactory to the Court that the testimony of the

witness is necessary, and that proper diligence has been used
to obtain it. '

CHAPTER 6. —QF PROCEEDINGS ro PERPETUATE Tnsrmomr.

Rama, SEC. 414. The testimon of a witness may be taken and
hovpeméim perpetuated as rovided in t is Chapter.
"'°"‘ SEC. 415. e applicant shall present to a Judge a peti-

”‘°°°°“’“3"' tion, verified by the oath of the ‘applicant, stating: First-—
' That the applicant expects to be a party to an action in a
Court in this Territory, and in such case the name or names

of the person or rsons whom he expects will be adverse

parties; or, Secon —That the proof of some fact or facts is
necessary to perfect the title to the propert in which he is
interested, or to establish marria e, descent, eirship, or any

other matter which it ‘may herea ter become material to estab-

lish, thou h no suit ma at the time be anticipated, or if
anticipate , he may not now the parties to such suit; and,
Third—The name of the witness to be examined and his place

_ of resiilence, and a general outline of the facts expected to be

rove . .

P SEC. 416. The J ucéitgia to whom such petition is presented
owing the examination before any

Judge of a Court of Record and prescribing the notice to be

'ven, which notice, if the parties are known and reside in

fhis Territory, shall be personally served on them, and if un-

known or non-residents, such notice shall be served on the

Clerk of the County where the property to be affected by such

testimony is situated, and a copiylv thereof published in some

news aper, to be designated b t e Judge making the order.

EC. 417. Upon proof 0 the service of the notice as ro-

,_,,,,_ vided in the last Section, it shall be the dut of the J u ge

before whom the testimony is ordered to be ta en, to proceed

to take the testimony of the witnesses named in said tition,

upon the facts therein set forth, and the taking of t e same

ma be continued from time to time, in_ the discretion of the

J u ge.
SEC. 418. The examination shall be by question and
same. answer, unless the parties otherwise agree. The testimony,

when completed, shall be carefully read to and subscribed by
the witness, then certified b the Judge, and immediately
thereafter med in the oflice o the Clerk of the Court of the
' County where it was taken, together with the order for the

examination of the witnesses, the petition on which the same 7

was ted, and the proof of the service of the notice. .
EC. 419. The affidavits or other proof filed with the
.;'&.?°",,i’§ testimony, or certihed co ies thereof, shall be prima facie
evidence of the facts state therein.
Deposition.’ SEc._ 420. lf the trial be had betweenthe persons named in
when to be the petition as parties ex ctant. or their successors in interest,
Wmence, or between any parties w erein it may be material to establish

NINETEENTH SESSION-. ‘ 93

the facts which such testimony proves or tends to prove, upon

roof of the death or insanity of the witness, or of his ma-

ility to attend the trial by reason of age, sickness or settled
innrmity, the testimony, or certified copies thereof, may be
used by either party, subject to all legal objections. But if
the parties attend at the examination, no objection to the form
of an interrogatory shall be made. at the trial, unless the same
was stated at the examination.

CHAPTER 7.-ADMINISTRATION or Cyrus AND AFFIRMA-
TIONS.

SEC. 421. Every Court of this Territo , every Judge or A
Clerk of any Court, every Justice of the eace, and every who antim-
Notar Pub ic, and every ofiicer authorized to take testimony, §§€.§’.-‘§.'£..m‘"‘
or to ecide upon the evidence in any proceeding, shall have
power to administer oaths or aflirmations.

SEC. 422. When a person is sworn who believes in any now adminis-
other than the Christian religion, he may be sworn according “”°°° '
to T3116 peculiar ceremonies of his religion, if there be any
suc . '

SEC. 423. Any‘ witness who desires it may, at his option,
instead of taking an oath, make his solemn affirmation, or £,;2"::‘:,‘},“°“'
declaration, b assenting, when addressed in the following
form: ‘‘You x o solemnly affirm that the evidence you shall
give in this issue, (or matter) pending between , and

, shall be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing
but the truth.” Assent to this affirmation shall be made by
the answer “I do. ” A false afhrmation or delaration shall be
deemed perjury equally with a false oath.

‘~91

CHAPTER 8.—INSPEC'1‘ION or DOCUMENTS AND MISCELLA-
NEOUS PROVISIONS AS TO RECORDS AND Wmrmes.

SEC. 424. Any Court in which an action is pending, or a CO H;
Judge thereof may, upon notice, order either party to give to ordler 11%
the other within a specified time a copy, or mission to take I,‘,;,_9“’° °°Wr
a copy of any book, document or paper in is possession, or
under his control, containing business accounts or transactions
of a pecuniary character relating to the merits of the action,
or the defence therein. If compliance with the order be
refused, the Court may exclude the book, document, or paper
from bein given in evidence, or if wanted as evidence by the
party aajpp ymg, may direct the jury to presume it to be such
as he eges it to be; and the Court may also punish the part
refusing for contempt. This Section shall not be constru
to prevent a party from compelling another to roduce such
books, papers or documents, when he is examine as awitness,
as are speciiied in Section Three Hundred and Eighty-Six.

SEC. 425. There shall be no evidence of the contents of a Evidence of
writing, other than the writing itself, except in the following contentsof
cases: First-—When the original has been lost or destroyed; ‘""“"" '

94 _ LAWS or UTAH.

in which case proof of the loss or destruction shall hrst be
made. Se_cond—-When the original is in thlggiossession of the
partdy  whom tlg evidence  e vV,hand hhe fails to
pro uce it ter reasona e notice. -— en t e original
is a record or other document in the. custogvy of a pubhc ofii-
cer, or officer of a corporation. Fourth- hen the original
has been recorded and a certified copy of the record is made
evidence by statute. Fifth—When the original consists of
numerous accounts or other documents which cannot be exam-
ined in Court without great loss of time, and the evidence
sought from them is only the general result  the whole. _
Amnuon 0, _ SEC. 426. The party producing a. writing as genuine,
:3-Imugztetgggg. which has been altered; or appears to have_been altered after
its execution, in a part material to the question in dispute, and
such alteration is not noted on the writing, shall account for
the appearance or alteration. He may show that the. alteration
was made by another without his concurrence, or was made
with the consent of theagarties affected by it, or otherwise
properly or innocently in e. If he do that, he may give the
Judicialho wnt1SI;1i«§cin4;7Vi.de.I:Loezii)<i1iE3iIal’t l(')et(13:)€i‘l(.1w1g% this Territory, of the
§°r33?i’. 7 United States, or 0 any State or Territory, may be proved by
‘the production of the original, or a copy thereof certified by
the Clerk, or other person having the egal custody thereo ,
under the seal of the Court, to be a true copy of such record.
SEC. 428. The records and judicial proceedings of the
3‘““°' Courts of any State, of the United States, or of an Territory,
may be ro_ved or admitted in the Courts of this erritory b
ittheshatte béaion ofa1th<zOCle£k and the seal Ito; the Coiurtlanijieg ,
ere ase terwit a.c'e'cateoteuge,
Chief Justice or Presigng Magistrate, as the case may be, that
the ssaid attestation isi lgllue forran. f f _ be
Judicial E0. 429. A ju ic' reco o a oreign country may
§."§‘3}§n°’ roved by the production of a copy thereof, certified b the
;;°,g:g,§'» ‘WW lerk, with the seal of the Court annexed, if there be a lerk
and seal, or by the le keeper of the record, with the seal of
his ofaiiceozngclexed,  here bgca seal, toJbe1,a, tl'1f_1e1(13Op of suhclh
recor eerwit acerti ateoaugeo te ourtt t
the person making the certificate is the Clerk of the Couit, or
the egal keeper of the1rei3lord,ang. in Cithea caseo’ that algae ,as1ig-
naureis nuinean teoerti catein ue rm- so
Eagettlheggiggh the  of Elie fMinister o3 Embassador of
e ni -tates, oro a ons 0- the Unite States in such
foreign country, that there is such a Court, specifyin:g gener-
allylthja naaéture gfciiss ,Lurisdi<3:lioni anatli Iigerifyingf the. sigrlraature
o e u ean er oro er eg eepero thereco .

, SEC. 430.. A copy of the judicial record of a foreign
country sl also be admissable in evidence upon proof:
First—That the copy offered has been compared by the witness

ésuggsggbggen with the original, and is an exact transcript of the whole of
it. Second—That such original was in the custody of the
Clerk of the Court or other legal kee r of the same; and,-

Third—That the copy is duly atteste by a «seal, which is

NINETEENTH SESSION. \ 95 '

pzrtcvedl to be the fsealcof the C(1')i1_1l't§1:Vhe£: the recolild remains? if
1 eterecor 0 a- ourt or’ re no suc seal ori it
bc rtiict a 1_-ecoig of a Court,’ by the’ signature of the legal keeper
0 e origin .

SEC. 431. Printed cocies in volumes of Statutes, code or gfggfnegs of
other written law, enacted y any State or Territory or forei statutesto be
overnment, purporting or proved to have been published’ y §3;"3§,§§§,”

t- e authority thereof, or proved to be commonly admitted as
evidence of the existing law, in the Courts and Judicial tribu-
nals of such State, Territory, or Government, shal-l be admitted
by the Courts and officers of this Territory on all occasions as
presumptive evidence of such laws. -

SEC. 432. A seal of a Court or public ofiice when required geal 3; Court-
to any writ or process, or proceeding, or to authenticate a co y °" ”'°°'°°
of any record 011‘) gltqcumenta racy betitm 3S€C()1tVg1thW:.X, wa er,
or any ot er su nce an en a ac e - 'e°wri process
or proceeding, or to the copy of the record or docunient, or it

may be impressed on the paper alone.

TITLE XII.
Of the Writ qf Certiorari and qf Mandamus.
CHAPTER I.—THE WRIT or CERTIORARI on REVIEW.

SEC. 433. The writ -of certiorari may be denominated the Denommum
writ of review.
SEC. 434. This writ may be granted on application by By what

an Court of this Territory, except a J ustice’s, or Alderman’s $5ia‘.’§’oa‘a§ in
or

a or’s Court; the writ shall be granted in all cases when "““‘°“' _
an in erior tribunal, board, or officer, exercising judicial func-
tions, has exceeded the jurisdiction of such tribunal, board, or
ofiicer, and there is no appeal, nor in the judgment of the
Court, any lain speed and adequate remedy.

SEC. 43 . Tihe app ‘cation shall be made on aiiidavit by ggvgggvm
the party beneficially interested, and the Court may require a mate.
notice of the application to be given. to the adverse (party, or
may grant an order to show cause why it shoul not be
allowed, or may grant the writ without notice.

SEC. 436. The writ may be directed ’fo the inferior tribu-
nal, board, or oflicer, or to any other person having the custody '§§.,".f.'§’.,‘3‘f’
of the record or roceedin s to be certi-ned. When directed to
a tribunal, the lerk, if t ere be one, shall return the writ
with the transcri 1: required. T -

SEC. 437. A he writ of review shall command the party wm, whatto
to whom it is directed to certify fully to the Court issuing the °°mm""‘-
writ, at a iiied time and place, and annex to the writ a
transcri t o the record and proceeding, (describing or refer-
ring to t em with convenient certainty) that the same may be
reviewed by the Court, and requiring the party in the mean
time to desist from further proceedings in the ' matter to be
reviewed. ‘

SEC. 438. If a stay of proceedings be not intended, the

96 Laws or UTAH.

5m°- A words requiring the stay shall be omitted from the writ.
These words may be inserted or omitted, in the sound discre-
tion of the Court, but if omitted, the power of the inferior
Courtd or oHicer shall not be suspended nor the proceedings
staye .
new served. SEC. 439. The writ shall be served in the same manner
' as a summons in a civil action, except when otherwise
expressly directed by the Court.
Rev,“ upon, SEC. 440. The review upon this writ shall not be extend-
extent or. ed further than to determine whether the inferior tribunal,
board, or omcer has regularly pursued the authority of such
tribunal, board, or ofiicer.
new of SEC. 441. If the return to the writ be defective, the Court
judgment. may order a further return to be made. When a full return
has been made, the Court shall proceed to hear the parties, or
such of them as may attend for that purpose, and may there-
upon give jueggment, either afiirming or annulling or modify-
ing the proc ings below.
SEC. 442. A copy of the 'udgment, signed by the Clerk,
,ggI;gn*g,;*g¢ ’ shall be transmitted to the in erior tribun , board, or officer
having the custody of the record or proceeding certified up.
SE0. 443. A copy of the judgment, signed by the Clerk,
Judgment entered upon or attached to the writ and return, shall consti-
I'°11- tute the judgment roll. If the proceeding be had in any other
than the Supreme Court, an appeal may be taken from the
iudgment in the same manner and upon the sameterms as

‘PPM from a judgment in a civil action.

CHAPTER 2.——THE WRIT or MANDATE on MANDAMUS.

SEC. 444. The writ of mandamus may be denominated
Writ the Writ of mandate.

. *d°“°‘“‘““°d- SEC. 445. It ma be issued by any Court in this Terri-

tory except a Justice s, to any inferior tribunal, corporation,
say what board or person, to compel the performance of an act which

$.—‘;’.‘§’t‘c‘;‘§§.‘° the law specially ‘enjoins as a duty resulting from an oflice,

‘MY "°‘““°°- trust or station; or to compel the admission of a party to the
' use and enjoyment of a right or office to which he is entitled
and from which he is unlawfully precluded by such inferior

tribunal, corporation, board or person.

SEC. 446. This writ shall be issued in all cases where
there is not a lain, s dy and adequate remedy in the ordi-
nary course 0 law. t shall be issued upon aiiidavit, on the
application of the party beneficially interested. -

SEO. 447. The wnt shall be either alternative or eremp-
tory. The alternative writ shall state generally the egation

To be either against the party to whom it is directed, and command such
’.f,;§?,§,';,},‘§§§,?’ party, immediately after the receipt of the writ, or at some
other specified time, do the act required to be performed, or
to show cause before the Court, at a specihed time and place,
why he has not done so. The peremptory writ shall be in a
similar form, except that the words requiring the party to

NINETEENTH SESSION. 97

show cause why he has not done as commanded, shall be
omitted, and a return day shall be inserted.

SEC. 448. When the application to the Court is made When alterna-
Without notice to the adverse party, and the writ be allowed, “",‘,';,‘,’,{W,,.,, to
the alternative shall be first issued; but if the application be issued-
upon due notice; and the writ be allowed, the peremptory may
be issued in the first in stance. The notice of the application,
when iven, shall be at least ten days. The writ shall not be
grante by default. The case shall be heard by the Court,

Whether the adverse arty appear or not.

SEC. 449. On t e return da of the alternative, or the Answe, to
day on which the a plication of t e writ is noticed, or such Writ-
further day as the éhurt ma allow, the party on whom the
writ or notice shall have een served may show cause by
answer under oath, made in the same manner as an answer to
a complaint in a civil action.

SEC. 450. If an answer be made, which raises a question

as to a matter of fact essential to the determination of the ?.Q‘§%f€2,¥'°
motion, and affecting the substantial rights of the arties, and "131 by 1"” '
upon the supposed truth of the allegation of whic the appli-
cation for the writ is based the Court may, in its discretion,
order the question to be tried before a jury, and ostpone the
argument until such trial can be had, and the ver ict certified
to the Court. The gluestion to be tried shall be distinctly stated
in the order for tri , and the County shall be des' nated in
which the same shall be had. The order may alsolgirect the
jury to assess an damages which the apphcant may have
sustained in case t e fin for him.

SEC. 451. On t e trial the applicant shall not be pre-

cluded by the answer of any valid 0 jection to its sufliciency, 2,1,’ °§§§3§y‘%f,
and may countervail it by proof either in direct denial or by WW9’-
way of avoidance.
SEC. 452. If either part be dissatisfied with the verdict
of the jury, he may move or a new trial upon a statement N°“""“”°
repared as provided in Section One Hundred and Ninety-Five.
The motion for a new trial may, upon reasonable notice, be
brought on before the Judge of the Court in which the cause
was tried, either in term or vacation. If a new trial be granted,
the jury shall, within five days thereafter, unless the parties
agree on a longer time, be summoned to try the issue. After
a second verdict in favor of the same party, a new trial shall
not be had.
SEC. 453. If no notice for a new trial be given, or if given But of
be denied, the Clerk, within nve days after the rendition of cneri tot
the verdict, or denial of the motion, shall transmit to the :.':,.':,i:%f
Court in which the ap lication for the writ is pending, a cer-
tified copy of the ver ict attached to the order of trial; after grzlgcgglglof
which, either party may bring on the argument of the appli- pp '
cation, upon reasonable notice to the adverse party.
SEC. 454. If no answer be made, the case shall be heard
on the papers of the applicant. If an answer be made which
does not raise a uestion such as is mentioned in Section Four

Hundred and Fi ty; but only such matters as may be explaind
e

Same.

'98 LAWS on UTAH.

or avoided by a replfi‘, the Court may, in its discretion, grant
time for replying. the answer, or answer and reply, raise
only uestions of law, or put in issue immaterial statements,
not a ecting the substantial rights of the parties, the Court
$111131]. proceed to hear, or fix a day for hearing the argument of
e case.

SEC. 455. If judgment be given for the applicant, he
‘§‘;‘},$,'f§3,‘;_ shall recover the damages which e shall have sustained, as
found by the jury; or as may be determined by the Court or
referees, upon a reference to be ordered, together with costs;
and for such damages and costs, an execution may issue, and

peremptory mandate shall also be awarded without delay.
SEC. 456. The writ shall be served in the same manner

2§§ivté§°' as a summons in a civil action, except when otherwise expressly
directed by order of the Court.
Rama, for SEC. 457. When a eremptory mandate has been issued

dgsobentgz and directed to any in erior tribunal, corporation, board or
%a'§3§x’:au'§.’ person, if it appear to the Court that any member of such
tribunal, co oration or board, or such person, upon whom
the writ has en personally served, has, without just excuse,
refuse or neglected to obey the same, the Court may, upon
motion, impose a fine not exceedin five hundred dollars. In
case of persistence in a refusal o ‘ obedience, the Court may
order the party to be imprisoned for a period not exceeding
one month, and ma make an orders necessary and proper

for the complete en orcement o the writ.

--  -4 .4

TITLE XIII.
Of Oontempts and their Punishments.

Contempt SEC. 458. _ The following acts or omissions shall be deemed

what deeined. contempts: First-—D1sorderly, contem tuous or insolent be-
havior towards the Judge, whilst hol ing Court, or engaged
in his judicial duties at Chambers, or towards referees or arbi-
trators whilst sitting on a reference or arbitration, or other
judicial proceedin . Second—A breach of the peace, boister-
ous conduct or vio ent disturbance in the presence of the Court
or in its immediate vicinity, tending to interrupt the due
course of a trial or other judicial preceding. Third—Disobe-
dience or resistance to any lawful writ, order, rule or rocess
issued by the Court or Judge at chambers. Fourth— isobe-
dience of a subpoena duly served, or refusing to be sworn or
answer as a witness. Fifth—Rescuing any person or property,
in the custody of an officer, by virtue of an order of process of
such Court, or Judge at chambers. Sixth—Disobedience to
the order or direction of the Court, made pending the trial of
an action, in speaking to or in the resence of a juror, con-
cerning an action in which such juror as been impanneled to
determine, or in any manner approaching or interfering with
the intent to iniiuence his verdict.

When SEC. 459. When a contempt is committed in the imme-

§’,‘,‘,§‘,’§§‘;‘,‘f},?_ diate view and presence of the Court, or Judge at Chambers,

NINETEENTH SESSION. 99

it may be punished summarily, for which an order shall be
made, reciting the facts as occurring in such immediate view
and resence, adjudging that the person proceeded against is
there y guilty of a contempt, and that he be punished as
therein prescribed. When the contem t is not committed in
the immediate view and resence of t e Court, or Judge at
Chambers, an affidavit s all be presented to the Court, or
Judge, of the facts constituting the contempt, or a statement
of the facts by the referees or arbitrators.

SEC. 460. When the contempt is not committed in the
immediate view and presence of the Court, or Judge a warrant €,,",“f‘$,’},‘§,‘,"“
of attachment may e issued to bring the person charged to issuable
answer, or, without a previous arrest, a warrant of commit-
ment may, upon notice, or upon an order to show cause, be
granted; and no warrant of commitment shall be issued with-
out such revious attachment to answer, or such notice or
order, to s ow cause. ‘ .

SEC. 461. VVhenever a warrant of attachment is issued
pursuant to this Chapter, the Court, or Judge, shall direct, by B”
an endorsement on such warrant, that the person charged may
be let to bail for his appearance, in an amount to be specified
in such endorsement. “

SEC. 462. Upon executing the warrant of attachment, the Duty of
officer shall keep the rson in custody, bring him before the Sheriff-
Court or Judge, and etain him until an order be made in the
premises, unless the person arrested entitle himself to be dis-
charged, as provided in the next Section.

SEC. 463. When a direction to let the person arrested to D1 mm
bail is contained in the warrant of attachment, or endorsed from ali-‘igst.
thereon, he shall be discharged from the arrest, upon exe-
cuting and delivering to t e officer, at any time before
the return day of the warrant, a written undertaking, with
two sufficient sureties, to the effect, that the person _ar-
rested will appear on the return day of the warrant, and
abide the order of the Court or Judge thereupon; or they will
pay as may be directed, the sum specified in the warrant.

SEC. 464. The oiiicer shall return the warrant of arrest
and the undertaking, if any, received by him from the person §.gt,.,,“§‘g,3f
arrested, by the return day specified therein.

SEC. 465. When the rson arrested. has been brought Investigation
up, or has ap eared, the ourt or Judge shall proceed to in- °‘ °““’3°“'
vestigate the c arge, and shall hear any answer which the
person arrested may make to the same, and may examine
witnesses for or against him,zfor which an adjournment may
be had from time to time, if necessary.

SEC. 466. Upon the answer and evidence taken, the Penalty if
Court, or Judge, shall determine whether the person pro- found trinity-
ceeded against is guilty of the contempt charged; and if it be
adjudged that he is guilty of the contempt, a fine may be
imposed on him not exceeding two hundred dollars, or he may
be imprisoned not exceeding five-days, or both.

SEC. 467. When the contempt consists in the omission to
perform an act which is yet in the power of the person to per-

100 LAWS OF UTAH.

gglrinsggglgo form, he ma be imprisoned until he have performed it, or

rform cer- until release by the Court, and, in that case, the act shall be
wlighlnstgower. specified in the warrant of commitment.

Ind,ctment_ SEC. 468. Persons proceeded against, accordin to the
rovisions of this Chapter, shall also be liable to in ictment
or the same misconduct, if it be an indictable offense, but the

Court before which a conviction is had on the indictment, in

gassing sentence, shall take into consideration the punishment

fore inflicted.
Proceedings SEC. 469. When the warrant of arrest has been returned,
Z',§‘t°5‘.,§,°f,‘f,’§“' served, if the person arrested do not appear on the return day,
avveab the Court, or Jud e, may issue another warrant of arrest, or

ma order the un ertaking to be prosecuted, or both. If the
un ertakin be rosecuted, the measure of damages in the
action sha be t e extent of the loss or in'ury sustained by
the aggrieved part by reason of the miscon uct for which the
warrant was issue , and the costsof the proceedin .
SEC. 470. Whenever, by the provisions of t%is~Chapter,
113;’ ,gf:§“,§§; an oflicer is required to kee a person arrested, on a warrant of
in custody- attachment, in cu stod , an to bring him before a Court, or
Judge, the inability, rom illness or otherwise, of the person
to attend, shall be a suflicient excuse for not bringing him up;
and the onicer shall not confine a person arrested- upon the
warrant, in a prison, or otherwise restrain him of personal
libert , except so far as may be necessary to secure his personal
-atten ance.
Contempt, SEC. 471. In cases of contempt, the punishment shall be
unishment by fine or imprisonment, or both, but no iine shall exceed the
°"' sum of two hundred dollars, and no imprisonment shall ex-

ceed the period of iive days, except as provided in Section
Four Hundred and Sixty-Seven.

TITLE XIV.

Of Costs.

SEC. 472. The measure and mode of compensation of
C0mp,_,,,,,,,on attorney: andh counselotrs shall be left t1<1) the agreementatgf the
of attorneys: parties ut t ere may e allowe to t e prevai incr p y in
em’ anyiaction  the courtsé, his costs in the action or special pro-
cee ing in t e nature 0 an action.
SEC. 473. Costs shall be allowed of course to the plaintiff,
when wowed 1I1Ipc;1I11 :0 ,];1i1dg;r3en6i1:1 in his favor in tlalf follovlvting csases: d 
of course to on r e recove o ~re prope y. econ -
1"“’“‘“’-" action to recover the possessyion of personal ropert , when the
value of the property amounts to one hundIr)ed dol ars or over,
such value shall be determined by the jury, Court or referee
by whomfthe action is tgied. Third—-In an action for the re-
covery .o money or amages where plaintiff recovers one
hhundr;-3d doltlars or t<i)ver. Fourth—-In a special proceeding in
enaureo anac on.
  SEC. 474. When several actions are brought on one bond,
undertaking, promissory note, bill , of exchange, or _other

 TH snssrorr. ' 101

instrument in writing, or in any other case for the san1e cause when eevere,
of action, against several parties who might have been joined ggtignstrg} one
as defendants in the same action, no costs shall be allowed to ‘' ’°

the plaintiff in more than one of such actions, which may be

at his election, if the party proceeded a ' st in the other

actions were at the commencement of e previous action

openly within this Territory.

SEC. 475. Costs shall be allowed of course to the defend- when allowed
ant upon a judgment in his favor in the actions mentioned in gfefgoelgelggeto
Section Four Hundred and Seventy-Three, and in a special
proceeding in the nature of an action.

SEC. 476. In other actions than those mentioned in
Section Four Hundred and Sevent -Three, costs may be e‘;'1;$e%"°W°d
allowed or not, and if allowed, may e apportioned between
the arties, on the same or adverse sides, in the discretion of
the ourt; but no costs shall be allowed in an action for the
recovery of mone or damages when the plaintiff recovers less
than one hundre dollars, nor in an action to recover the pos-
session of personal property, when the value of the property
is less than one hundred dollars. ~

SEC. 477. When there are several defendants, in the When Plaintiff

actions mentioned in Section Four Hundred and Seventy-Three, £gic1gv‘£'

not united in interest, and making seperate defenses, by seperate ,‘§§%f,',’,‘3‘,,‘,‘,',',_
answers, and the plaintiff fails to recover judgment against all,
the Court shall award costs to such of the defendants as have

judgment in their favor.

SEC. 478. In the following cases the costs of an appeal Appeal.
shall be in the discretion of the Court: First-—When a new
trial is ordered. Second—-When a judgment is modified.

SEC. 479. The fees of referees shall be not exceeding Refeeeee
five dollars to each, for every day spent in the business of the
reference; but the parties may agree in writing upon any other
rate of compensation, and thereupon such rate sh all be

allowed.

SEC. 480. When an application is made to a Court or Costs when
referee to postpone a trial, the payment of costs occasioned by $3‘ ,3"
the postponement, may be imposed, in the discretion of the

Court or referee, as a condition of granting the same.

SEC. 481. When in an action for the recovery of money We (1 f (‘I
only, the defendant alleges in his answer that before the co '- antifise °° '
mencement of the action, he tendered to the plaintiff the full f,‘3,f,‘,‘},‘§}’,‘;“,,,,,,_
amount to which he was entitled, and thereu. on deposits in
Court, for the laintiff, the amount so tendereg, and the alle-
gation be foun to be true, the laintiff shall not recover costs; .
but shall pay costs to the defen ant.

"SEC. 482. In an action prosecuted or defended by an Inaction
executor, administrator, trustee of express trust, or a erson g};§1e'ee*edeee
expressly authorized by statute, costs may be recovere as in etc.;18 party-
an action by, and against, a person prosecuting and defending
in his own right; but such costs s all, by the judgment, be
made char able only upon the estate, fund, or arty re re-

sented, u ess the Court shall direct the same to e pm by

102 LAWS or UTAH.

the plaintiff or defendant, personally, for mismanagement or
bad faith in the action or defense.
On review. SEC. 483. When the decision of a Court of inferior juris-
diction in a special roceeding is brought before a Court of
higher jurisdiction or a review in any other way than b
ap al, the same costs shall be allowed as in cases on appe ,
an may be collected by execution, or in such manner as the
Court may direct, according to the nature of the case.
g§°*§,°,§g13§{1¥_1 SEC. 484. The party in whose favor judgment is ren-
glireiaw dered, and who claims his costs, shall deliver to the Clerk of
e’ ' the Court, within two da s after the verdict or decision of the
Court, a memorandum o the items of his costs in the action or
proceeding, which memorandum shall be verified by the oath
of the party or his attorney, statin that the items are correct,
and that they have been necessa ' y incurred in the action or
proceeding.
glglgémclggfd S130. 485. The Clerk shall include in the 'udgment
gm entered up by him, any interest in the verdict or ecision of
the Court or referee, from the time it was rendered or made,
and the costs, if the same have been taxed or ascertained, and
he shall, within two days after the same shall be taxed or
ascertained, if not included in the judgment, insert the same
in a blank to be left in the judgment for that urpose, and
shall make a similar insertion of the costs in t e copies and
docket of the judgment.
Security for SEC. 486. When a plaintiff in an action resides out of
°°‘*“ the Territory, or is a foreign co oration, security for the costs
and charges which may be awar ed against such plaintiff, ma
be required by the defendant. When required, all _procee -
ings in the action shall be stayed until an undertaking, exe-
cuted by two or more persons, be filed with the Clerk, to the
effect that they will ay such costs and charges as may be
awarded against the p aintiff by judgment, or in the rogress
of the action, not exceeding the sum of three hundre dollars.
A new or an additional undertaking may be ordered by the
Court, or Judge, upon roof that the ori inal undertaking is
insudicient security, an proceedings in t§e action stayed until
such new or additional undertaking be executed and filed.
same. SEC. 487. Each of the sureties on the undertaking, men-
tioned in the last Section, shall annex to the same, an -aflidavit
that he is a resident and householder or freeholder within the
county, and is worth double the amount specified in the under-
takin , over and above all his just debts and liabilities, exclu-
sive 0 property exempt from execution.

SEC. 488. After the lapse of thirty days from the service
of notice that security is required, or of an order for new or
additional securit , upon proof thereof, and that no under-
taking as require , has been filed, the Court, or Judge, may
order the action to be dismissed.

Same.

NINETEENTH snssrorr. 103.

TITLE XV.

Of Motions, Orders, Notices, Service of Papers, and Miscellaneous

SEC. 489. Every direction of a Court, or Judge, made or Motions, &c.—
entered in writing, and not included in a judgment, is denomi-
nated an order. An application for an order is a motion.

SEC. 490. Motions shall be made in the Court in which Wheretobo
the action is brou ht. ’“““°'

SEC. 491. hen a written notice of a motion is neces- Notice of.
sary, it shall be given ten days before the time a pointed for
tiling hearing, but the Court, or Judge, may prescri a shorter

e.
SEC. 492. When a notice of a motion is given, or an order Shall stand
to show cause is made returnable before a Judge out of Court, ‘“”°““‘°d'
and at the time fixed for the motion, or on the return day of
the order, the Judge is unable to hear the parties, the matter
sjhaill stand adjourned until the further order of the Court or

u ge. ,

SEC. 493. Written notices and other a rs, when Service 01'
required to be served on the party or an attcyrngy, shall be 535’ 11°"
served in the manner prescribed in the next three Sections,
when not otherwise provldedg but nothing in this Title shall be
applicable to original or final process, or any proceedings to
bring a party into contempt. -

SEC. 494. The service may be rsonal, by delivery to same.
the party or his attorney, on whom till): service is required to
be made, or it may be as follows: First—If upon an attorney,
it may be made during his absence from his ofiice, by leaving
the notice or other papers with his Clerk therein, or with a

rson having charge thereof, between the hours of eight in
t e morning and six in the afternoon, or b leaving them at
the attorney’ s residence, with some person o suitable age and
discretion, or by mail, directed to such attorney. Second—If
upon a party, it may be made by leaving the notice or other
paper at his residence, between the hours of eight in the mom-
mg and six in the evening, with some person of suitable age
and discretion, or by mail, directed to such party.

SEC. 495. Service by mail may be made, when the person when sewed
making the service, and the person on whom it is to be made, by ma"-
reside at different places, between which there is a regular
communication by mail.

SEC. 496. In case of service by mail, the notice or other same,
paper shall be deposited in the post-oflice, addressed to the
person on whom it is to be served, at his lace of residence,
and the postage paid, but the service sha 1 not be deemed
complete until the notice or other paper be received. And, in
such case, the time of service shall be increased one day for
every twent -five miles distance between the place of deposit
and lane 0 address.

EC. 497. A defendant shall be deemed to appear in an

104

LAWS OF UTAH.

meg defend_ action when he answers, demurs, or gives the plaintiff written

ant deemed to
have appeared

Service after

SDDOGIGDCQ1
etc-

Successive
actions on

same contract

When may be
consolidated.

Actions to
determine

adverse claim.

Register of
Actions.

Referees,
majority
may act.

Time, how
computed.

Paper:
without the
title of the

action.

Cause of
action in
another
State, etc.

notice of his ap arance, or when an attome gives notice of
appearance for  . After appearance, a efendant, or his
attome , shall be entitled to notice of all subsequent proceed-
ings 0 which notice is required to be given. But, where a
defendant has not appeared, service of notice or papers need
ggzlbe made upon him, unless he be imprisoned for want of

SE0. 498. When a plaintiff or a defendant who has a -
peared, resides out of the Territory, and has no attome in
the action or proceeding, the service may be made on the C erk
for  But in all cases where a party has an attorney in the
action or proceeding, the service of the a ers, when required,
shall be upon the attorne instead otp t e part , except of
subpcenas, of writs, and ot er process issued .in t e suit, and
of papers to bring him into contempt.

SEC. 499. Successive actions may be maintained upon
the contract or transaction, whenever, after the former action,
a new cause of action arises therefrom.

SEC. 500. Whenever two or more actions are pending at
one time between the same parties, and in the same Court,

upon causes of action which might have been joined, the '

Court may order the actions to be consolidated into one.

SEC. 501. An action may be brought by one erson
a ainst another, for the urpose of determining an verse
c aim which the latter ma es against the former, for money or
property, upon an alleged obligation; and also against two or
more persons, for the purpose of compellin one to satisfy a
debt due the other, for which the laintiff is%)ound as security.

SEC. 502. The Clerk shall eep, among the records of
the Court, a register of actions. He shall enter therein the
title of the action, with brief notes under it, from time to time,
of all papers filed, and proceedings had therein.

SEC. 503. When there are three referees, or three arbi-
trators, all shall meet, but two of them may do any act which
might be done by all.

SEC. 504. The time within which an act is to be done, as
provided in this Act, shall be computed by excluding the first
day, and including the last. If the last day be Sunday, it shall
be excluded.

SEC. 505. An aflidavit, notice, or other paper, without
the title of the action or roceeding in which it is made, or
with a defective title, shal be as valid and effectual for an
purpose as if duly entitled, if it intelligibly refer to suclz
action or proceeding. .

SEC. 506. When a cause of action has arisen in a State,
or other Territory, or in a foreign country, and b the laws
thereof an action thereon cannot there be maintaine against a
person by reason of the elaplse of time, an action thereon shall
not be maintained against im in this Territor , except in favor
of a citizen thereof who has held the cause 0
time it accrued.

action from the

NINETEENTH SESSION.

TITLE XVI.
Of Proceedings in Civil Cases, in Justices’ Courts.

CHAPTER 1.—-OF THE PARTIES AND THE TIME AND PLACE
OF COMMENCING ACTIONS IN J USTICES’ COURTS.

SEC. 507. The rovisions of Title One of this Act, as to
arties to actions, all be applicable to actions of which a
ustices’ Court has jurisdiction. Justices’ Courts shall have

Parties to
actions in
ustices'

J
Courts.

105

jurisdiction of the following actions and proceedings: First- Jurisdictions.

Of an action arising on contract for the recovery of money
only, if the sum claimed, exclusive of interest, does not
exceed one hundred dollars. Second—Of an action for damages
for injury to the person, or for taking or detaining personal
groperty, or for injuring real or ersonal ro erty, if the

amages claimed do not exceed one undred ol ars. Third-

Of an action for a fine, penalty or forfeiture, not exceeding

ohe hundred dollars, given by statute. Fourth—Of an action‘

upon a bond, conditioned for the a ent of money, not
exceeding one hundred dollars, thoug t e penalty exceed that
sum, the judgment to be given for the sum actually due.
When the payments are made by installments, an action may
be brought for each ihstallment as it becomes due. Fifth-
Of an action u on a surety bond or undertaking, thou h the
Eenalty excee , if the amount claimed does not excee , one

undred dollars. Sixth—-Of an action to recover the possession
of personal propert , when the value of such propert does
not exceed one hun red dollars. Seventh—To take an enter
jud ment on the confession of a defendant when the amount
con essed does not exceed one hundred dollars. Eighth—Of
actions for the possession of lands and tenements where the re-
lation of landlord and tenant exists. Ninth—Of roceedings
respectin vagrants and disorderly persons. Tent —Of suits
for the co ectlon of taxes, where the amount of the tax sued
for does not exceed one hundred dollars. The jurisdiction
conferred by this Section shall not extend to a civil action in
which the title to real estate or mining claims or questions to
boundaries of lands are involved, orto actions to enforce mechan-
ic’s liens, and if questions of title to real property be involved,
or cases involving such uestions shall be dis osed of as here-
after provided in this ct. The Courts hel by Justices of
the Peace shall be denominated Justices’ Courts. They shall

have no terms, but shall always be open. Justices’ Courts
shall be held in their respective. precincts.

SEC. 508. Parties in J ustwes’ Courts may prosecute or my ,,,,,,.,,,

defend in person or by attorney; and any person,

request of a party, may act as his attorney, except that the
Constable, by whom the summons or jury rocess was served,

shall not appear or act on the trial in beh f of either party.

1 1
On the b';’:%E'52~?.:;'.

SEC. 509. No person shall be held to answerto any sum- Jurisdiction

mons issued against him

from a Justices’ Court, in a civil °‘

person.

106

Further
J urisdiction.

Actions how
commenced.

Guardian,

IIOW appointed

LAWS OF UTAH.

action, in any precinct other than the one in which he shall
reside, except in the cases following: First——VVhen there shall
be no Justices’ Court for the precinct in which the defendant
may reside, or no Justice competent to act on the case.
Second—-When two or more persons shall be jointly, or jointly
and severally, bound in any debt or contract, or otherwise
jointly liable in the same action and reside in different pre-
cincts of the same County, or in different Counties, the plain-
tiff may prosecute his action in a Justices’ Court of the recinct
in which any of the debtors, or other persons liab e, may
reside. Third—-In cases of injury to the person, or to
real or personal property, the plaintiff may prosecute his
action in the precinct where t e injury was committed.
Fourth—W'hen personal property unjustl taken or detained
is claimed, or damages therefor are claim , the plaintiff may
bring his action in any precinct in which the ro rt may be
found, or in which the roperty was taken. ift —— en the
defendant is a non-resi ent of the County, he ma be sued in
any precinct wherein he may be found. Sixth— en a per-
son has contracted to perform any obli ation at a particular
place, and resides in another precinct,%e may be sued in the
precinct in which such obligation is to be performed, or in
which he resides. ‘

SEC. 510. Judgment u n confession may be entered up
in any Justices’ Court in t e Territo specified in the con-
fession. The provisions of Title Ten, C apter Two, of this Act
shall apply to such confession, the word “Justice” being sub-
stitute or that of Clerk wherever it may occur.

SEC. 511. Justices’ Courts shall have jurisdiction of an
action upon the voluntary ap arance of the parties without
summons, without regard to tggir residences or the place where
the ctzause of action arose, or the subject matter of action may
exis -.

CHAPTER 2.—SUMMoNs, ARREST, ATTACHMENT AND CLAIM
or PERsoNAL PROPERTY.

SEC. 512. Actionsin Justices’ Courts shall be commenced
by filin a cop of the account, note, bill, bond or instrument
upon w ich t e action is brought, or_ a concise statement in
writing of the cause of action, and the issuance of a summons
thereon, or by the voluntary ap arance and pleadings of the

aréties wiithout summ(pns. hln t e latter case the action shall
eemc commence at t e time o appearance.

SEC. 513. When’ a guardian is necessary, he shall be
appointed by the Justice, as follows:. First-—If the minor be a
it ?§§.‘i‘fa’ ‘SE03 %“;‘§§‘{'.iii.2.t?£‘§‘".fbfhfiudaict-’f§’f;§‘£Z §}‘?1‘.’é“°”’
of fourteen years or upwards; if under that age, upon the a.pia)fi£:
cation of some relative or friend. The consent in writing of
the guardian to be appointed, and to be responsible for costs,
if he fail in the action, shall be first file with the Justice.

NINETEENTH sEssIoN. 107

Secon d—If the minor be defendant, the guardian shall be
a pointed at the time the summons is returned or before the
p eadings. It shall be the right of the minor to nominate his
own guardian, if the minor be over fourteen years of age, and
the proposed guardian be present and consent in writing to be
appointed. Otherwise the Justice may appoint any suitable
person who gives such consent.

SEC. 514. The summons shall be addressed to the defend- summon.
ant b name, or if his name be unknown, b a fictitious name, ‘°"'“ °‘'
and all summon him to appear before the ustice at his oiice,
naming its precinct, and at a time specified therein , to answer the
complaint of the plaintiff, for a cause of action therein described,
in general terms, suflicient to apprise the defendant of the nature
of the claim against him; and, in action for money or damages,
shall state the amount for which the laintiff will take judgment,
if the defendant fail to appear an answer. It shall be sub-
scribed by the Justice before whom it is returnable.

SEC. 515. The time mentioned in the summons for the Time 1
ap arance of the defendant, and the time of service shall be servicg and
as ollows: First—When the summons is accompanied with an ‘P"°“"‘“°°'
order to arrest the defendant, it shall be returnable imme-

diately. Second—When the defendant is not a resident of the
precinct, or when the plaintiff is not a resident, it shall be
returnable not more than two days from its date, and shall be
served at least one day before the time for a pearance, except
in cases where the summons is to be served y publication, or
out of the Territory, or by posting notices thereof, when it
shall be made returnable at any time desi nated by the Jus-
tice, not exceeding sixty dais from the ate of its issuance.
Third—In all other cases it s all be returnable in not less than
two or more than ten days from its date, and shall be served
at least two days before the time for appearance. .

SEC. 516. The summons shall be served by the Sheriff, or’H°'W Served-
a Constable of the County, or b any male citizen of the United
States over twenty-one years 0 age, as follows: First—If the
action be against a corporation, by a delivery of a copy to the
President, or other head of the co oration, or to the secretary,
cashier or managing agent therelolf’, or when no such officer *
resides in the County, to a director resident therein. Second-

If against a minor under the age of fourteen years, by delivery
of a copy to such minor, and also to his father, mother or
guardian; or if there be none within the County, then to any
person having the care or control of such minor, or with whom
e resides, or in whose service he is. Third—If against a er-
son judicially declared to be of unsound mind, or mcapab e of
conducting his own affairs, and for whom a guardian has been
appointed, by delivery of a copy to such guardian. Fourth-
In all other cases, by delivery of the copy to the defendant
personally.
SEC. 517. Sections Thirt to Thirty-Five, both inclusive,
of Title Three of this Act are ereby made applicable. to J us- §f,‘,’,‘1§3§.‘1‘§1‘.§‘,1,"°
tices’ Courts, and proceedings therein—the word “Justice” 333253’
being inserted wherever the word “Clerk” or “Judge” occurs,

108 LAWS or UTAH.

and the word “Constable” inserted wherever the words “Ter-
ritorial Matshal” or “Shei-itf” occur, and the word “com laint”
whenever it occurs being stricken out and disregarde : pro-
vided, that in actions upon contracts for the pa ent of

Pmm money, the Justice may, in his discretion, instead 0 ordering
publication of summons, or the a ointment of an attorney to

PP ,

appear for the defendant, order the service of the summons to
be made by iiloglting copies thereof in three public places in the
precinct, wit8 ' Xne day after the. same is issugg. be

when mam d Size. 51 . — n or. er toi grreit tgiestdefen drgzl 111.13% den;

 m°J§“b.°2r?.§?."é‘”%§§f.tii‘“§y t . siefim ‘iii’ iatnstibii ‘Z3; it’.

9

time of serving the summons, and brought before the Justice,
and there detatibgedhuntil duly fdilslscharged, in tEl_1§nf0ll0v:iI1g
cases, arising a r e passage 0 t is Act: Firs an ac ion
for the recovery of money or damages on a cause of action
arising upon a contract, express or implied, when the defend-
ant is abouit to deipziflt frlglél the Counfly or 1’1l‘erriiiory, vvith Elie
intent to e rau ‘so itors; orw ere t e ac ion is or e
wilful injury to the erson, or for taking, detaining or injuring
personal property. econd—-In an action for a fine or penalty,
or for money or property embezzled, or fraudulently misap-
plied, or converte to his ‘own use by an attorney, factor,-
broker, agent or clerk, in the course of his employment as
such, or by any other person in a fiduciary capacity. Th.ird—
When the. defendant has been guilty of a fraud in contracting
the debt, or incurring the obligation for which the action is
brought. Fourth—-When the defendant has removed, con-
cetaeleig. tcéréiitsposgdhof hisiproperty, or is about to do so, with
in n e rau is cre 1 ors.

Undemmg, SEC. 519. Before an order of arrest shall be made, the

etc» part ap 1 'ng shall prove to the satisfaction of the Justice ,
b t e a avit of himself or some other person, the facts on
w ‘oh the a plication is founded. The plaintiff shall also
execute and deliver to the Justice a written undertaking, with
two or more sureties, to the effect that if the defendant recover
judgment, the plaintiff will pay to him all costs that may be
awarded to the defendant, and all damages which he may
sustain by reason of the arrest, not exceeding the sum s ecl-
geclll intthe undertaking, which shall be at least one hun red

0 ars.
SEC. 520. The defendant, immediately upon being ar-
§§'}g‘;;},g:*{,gnd- rested, shall be taken to the oflice of the Justice who made the
:9ako%netl>_efore order, and if he be absent or unable to try the action, or if it
Justice. be made to appear to him, by the aflidavit of the defendant,
that he is a material witness in the action, the officer shall
immediately take the defendant before a Justice of that, or an
adjoining ‘precinct of the County, who shall take cognizance
of thg acigop 1; anlddproréeed thfreolé as) if £1111: summons had been
issue an eo ero arres ma e ' .

lgtgg ggcegg _ SE(}._ 521. The oflicer makingtheyarrest shall immediately
give notice thereof to the plaintiff, or his attorne or agent,
and endorse on the summons, and subscribe a certigcate, stat-

NINETEENTH SESSION. 109

ing the time of serving the same, the time of the arrest, and of
his giving notice to the plainti.{i'. '

SEC. 522. The officer making an arrest shall keep the
gefeirimant in custody until duly ischarged by order of the s“'”°'

us ce.

SEC. 523. The defendant under arrest, on his appearance Def d t

with the officer, may demand a trial immediately; and upon mag? :1-I11-est
such demand being made, the trial shall not be delayed beyond §‘,§‘;,§§,‘£t‘e“°
tlwelve hours}; excepth by the traigl of another agtion nding at trial-
t e time, or e may ave an journment an be 'schar ed
on giving bail, as provided in the next Section. An adjougrn-
ment at the request of the plaintiff, beyond twelve hours,
shall discharge the defendant from arrest; but the action may
Itgoceedtnotwlttlhstandingi;  tlirlal defendant shall bef iubgg
arres on re execu 1011 111 e same manner asi e
not been,so dischar d. ’

SEC. 524. If t e defendant on his a pearance, demand How defend-

an adjournment, the same shall be grante , on condition that 3§f,‘,‘},“”
he execute, angi iilet w1tht_thetg111)st1ce, an uéldtertalkin , with °~d1°“mm°n*-
wo or more su cien sure 1es, e a rove e ustice
to the effect that he will render himsle f amenalgle to the pro:
cess of the Court durin the ndency of the action, and such
as may be issued, to en orce t e 'udgment therein, or that the
sureties will pay to the plaintiff t e amount of any judgment
whicliii his _mz1L: iegovteir in 1t1l11e gctictm. 01111  thehunéletrtalaiing
s ci e in s ec on, e usices a or ert e een ant
tgebe discharged from custody. -

SEC. 525. The following Sections of Chapter One, Title 8 ti 8
Five, of_ this Act _shall be _applicable to Justices’ Courts and a§‘fm_3§q1e to
prolceedmgs ihareirif, Ito wit: tliiillitytém TEighty-Fivleftlbotéh E~3f,§’§§5
mcus1ve;an e o owm o a r wo same ' e o
wit: Ninety-Nine to One H%ndred aI1)1d Two, ,both inclusive;

One Hundred and Four and One Hundred and Seven to One
Hundred and Ten, both inclusive; the word “Justice” being
inserted in lieu of “Clerk” or “Judge” wherever they occur,
and the word “Constable” in lieu of the words “Territorial
Marshal” or “Sheri1i';” also Sections One Hundred and Twenty-
Three to One Hundred and Forty—Four both inclusive; the
word “J ustice” being inserted in heu of that of “Judge” and
“Clerk” whenever it may occur: provided, that the Writ of
attachment shall be directed to the “Sheriff” or any Constable Proviso.
of any Count of this Territory, and may be executed by the
Constable, an wherever the word “Sheriff” occurs the word
“Constable” shall be deemed to be also inserted.

CHAPTER 3.-PLEADINGS AND TRIAL.

SEC. 526. The pleadings in Justices’ Courts shall be: Pleadlngs
First—The complaint by the plaintiff, stating the cause of °°“°°°-
action. Second—-The answer by the defendant, stating the
ground of the defense.

SEC. 527. The pleadings shall be in writing, and veriiied

110 mws or UTAH.

grgaggtggg in. by the oath of the party, his agent or attorney, when the action
verified. is: First-For the oreclosure of any mortgage or the enforce-
ment of any lien on personal property. Second—Of actions
for the possession of lands or tenements: provided, always,

Prov1s0- that the amount claimed does not exceed one hundred dollars.
O1-alto be SEC. 528. When the pleadings are oral, the substance of
$§'ri€ét'§§’to be them shall be entered by the Justice in his docket; when in
‘“°d- writing, they shall be filed in his office, and a reference made

to them in the docket. Pleadings shall not be re uired to be
in any particular form, but shall be such as to ena le a person
of common understandin to know what is intended.

Complamt, SEC. 529. The comp aint shall state in a plain and direct
whatto state manner the facts constituting the cause of action.
Answer, what SEC. 530. The answer may contain a denial of any of the

‘° °°”‘““‘° material facts stated in the complaint which the defendant
believes to be untrue, and also a statement, in a lain and
direct manner, of any other facts constituting a de ense, or a.
counter claim upon which an action may be brought by the
defendant against the plaintiff in a J ustice’s Court.

SEC. 531. A statement in answer that the party has not
sufficient knowledge or information in respect to a particular
allegation in the previous pleading of the adverse party, to
form a belief, shal be deemed equivalent to a denial.

when the _ SEC. 532. When the cause‘, of action or counter claim
cgugggzgsgznt arises upon ‘an account or _1nstrument for the ayment of
‘for payment money only, it shall be suflicient for the party to de 1vera copy
°‘ m°“°Y° of the account or instrument to the Court, and to state that
there is due to him thereu on, from the adverse party, a
speciiied sum, which he c aims to recover or set off. The
Court may, at the time of the pleading, re uire that the origi-
nal account or instrument be exhibited tot e inspection of the
adverse (party, and a copy to be furnished, or if it be not so
exhibite , and a copy so furnished, may prohibit its being
afterwards given in evidence.
Instruments’ SEC. 533. If the plaintiff annex to his complaint, or file
ggnuinenessto with the Justice at the time of issuing the summons, a copy
“"“‘“°d' of the promissory note, bill of exchange, or other written
obligation for the (payment of money, upon which the action
is brought, the efendant shall be deemed to admit the
genuineness of the signatures of the makers, indorsers or
assignors thereof, unless he s ecifically deny the same in his
answer, and verify the answer y his oath.
objectionsto SEC. 534. Either party may object to a pleading of his
3 adversary, or to any part thereof, that it is not sufliciently
explicit to enable him to understand it, or that it contains no
cause of action or defense, althoughiit be taken as true. If
the Court deem the objection well founded, it shall order the
pleading to be amended, and if the arty refuse to amend, the
efective pleading shall be disregar ed.

SEC. 535. A variance between the proof on the trial and
the alle ations in a pleading shall be disregarded as immate-
rial, unglgess the Court be satisfied that the adverse party has
been misled to his prejudice thereby.

Variance.

. before the trial, to supply a deficiency or omission, w

NINETEENTH sEssIoN. 111

SEC. 536. The pleadings may be amended at any time Amendments

_ en by or pleadings.
such amendment substantial justice will be promoted. If the
amendment be made after the issue, and it be made to appear

’ to the satisfaction of the Court, by oath, that an adjournment
is necessary to the adverse part in consequence of such
amendment, an adjournment sha 1 be granted. The ,Court
may also, in its discretion, require as a condition of an amend-
ment, the payment of costs to the adverse party, to be fixed
by the Court, not exceeding ten dollars, but such payment
shall not be required unless an adjournment is made necessary
by the amendment, nor shall an amendment be allowed after
a witness is sworn on the trial, when an adjournment thereby
will be made necessary.

SEC. 537. The parties shall not be at liberty to give evi-
dence upon any question which involves the title to, or Tjgleeg-Wm!
the right of possession of real property or mining claims, 3v: encednot
or upon any question involving boundaries to land, or the ‘°”° “"°"'
legal1ty of any tax, impost, assessment, toll or munici al fine‘,
nor shall any issue presenting such question be trie by the
Justice, and if it appear from the plaintiti"s own showing, on
the trial, or from the answer of the defendant, verified by his
oath, that the determination of the action will necessaril
involve either of such uestions, the Justice shall sus end a I
further proceedings in t e action, and certif the plea ings, or
if the pleadings e oral, a transcri t of t e same from his
docket to the Probate Court for the ounty, and from the time
of filing such proceedin s or transcript with the Clerk of the
Probate Court, such Pro ate Court shall have over the action
the same jurisdiction as if it were originally commenced
therein.

SEC. 538. If, at any time before the trial, it appearto the
satisfaction of the Justice before whom the action is brought, 3&2“ “°“‘°“
by affidavit of either party, that such Justice is a material wit- transferred-
ness for either party, or if either arty make afiidavit that he
has reason to believe, and does be ‘eve, that he cannot have a
fair and impartial trial before such Justice, by reason of the
interest, prejudice or bias of the Justice, on statin the facts
upon which such belief is founded, the action shal be trans-
ferred to some other Justice of the same or adjoining recinct,
in the same County, and in case a jury be deman ed, and
afhdavit of either party is made that he cannot have a fair and
impartial trial, on account of the bias or prejudice of the citi-
zens of the precinct against him, the action shall be transferred
to some other Justice of the Peace in the County, but only one
transfer shall be allowed to either arty. The Justice to whom
an action may be transferred by tlI1)e provisions of this Section
shall have and exercise the same jurisdiction over the action as
if it had been originally commenced before him. The Justice
ordering the transfer of the action to another Justice, shall
immediately transmit to the latter, on payment by the a pli-
cant of all Justices’ and oflicers’ costs unpaid and due rom
him, and the costs of making a copy of the docket for trans-

112 LAWS or UTAH.

mission, all,the papers in the action, together with a certihed
Proviso. transcript from his docket of the proceedings therein: provided,
that if the applicant _fail to pay said costs for the space of
three hours, the Justice may vacate the order changing the
place of trial, and proceed to try the cause as though such‘
order had not been made. The Justice to whom the case is
transferred, shall issue a notice stating the time and place
when and where the trial will take place; which notice shall be
served u on the parties by any ofiicer authorized to serve pro-
cess in a ustice’s Court, or by any person specially ap ointed
by aphe Justice for that purpose, at least one day be ore the
tri .
- SEC. 539. The trial ma be ad'ournedb consent or u n
3rd33§i.nm°°t application of either party, {without} the congent of the ot er,
for a period not exceeding ten days, (except as provided inthe
next Section) as follows: First——The party asking the adjoum-
. ment shall, if required by his adversary, prove, by his own
oath or otherwise, that he cannot, for want of material testi-
mony which he expects to procure, safely proceed to trial,
and shall show in what res ct the testimony expected is
material, and that he has use due diligelnce to procure it, and
has been unable to do so. Second— e arty asking the
adjournment shall also, if required by the verse party, con-
sent that the testimony of any witness of such adverse party,
who is in attendance be then taken by deposition before the
Justice, which shall accordin ly be done, and the testimony so
taken may be read on the tria , with the same effect and subject
to the same objections as if the witness were produced. But
such objections shall be made at the time of taking the depo-
sition. Third-—The Court ma also require the moving arty
to state upon aflidavit the evi ence which he expects to o tain,
-and if the adverse arty thereupon admit that such evidence
would be given, an that it be considered as actually given on
the trial, or offered and overruled as improper, the trial shall
not be postponed.

S130. 540. An adjournment may be had either at the time
of joining issue, or at any subsequent time to which the case
may stand adjourned, on application of either party, for a
period longer than ten days, but not to exceed our months
from the time of the return day of the summons, upon proof,
by the oath of the party or otherwise, to the satisfaction of the
Justice, that such party cannot be ready for trial before the
time to which he desires an adjournment for want of material
evidence, particularly describing it, and that the delay has not
been made necessary by any act of negligence on his art since
the action was commenced; that he has used due d’ ' enceto

rocure the evidence, and has been unable to do so, and that

e expects to procure the evidence at the time stated by him:
provided, that if the adverse party admit that such evidence
would be given, and consent t at it may be considered as given
on the trial, or offered and overruled as improper, the adjourn-
ment shall not be had.

SEC. 541. No adjournment shall be granted for a period

Same.

NINETEENTH sEssIoN. 113

longer than ten days, upon the application of either party, Same-
except upon condition that such party file an undertaking,
with sureties, to be approved by the Justice, to the effect that
they will pay to the opposite party, the amount of any judg-
ment that may be recovered la§ainst the party applying.

SEC. 542. If the plaint' fail to appear at the return da Whegbgction
of the summons, the action shall be dismissed. If the defen - .'i”1§z¥ussea.
ant fail to a pear at the return day of the summons, or if
either party 11 to attend at a day to which the trial has been
adjourned, or fail to make the necessary pleading or proof on
his part, the case may nevertheless proceed at the request of
the adverse party, and judgment shall be given in conformity
with the pleadin s and proofs.

SEC. 543. - trial b jury shall be demanded at the time

of joining issue, and sh be deemed waived if neither part £‘f,’§,1,b" ‘“”".i

then demand it. When demanded, the trial of the case sh “°m“d°d-
be adjourned until a time and place fixed for the return of the Pro can
jury. If neither party desire an adjournment, the time and whecn mi’?
place shall be determined by the Justice, and shall be on the §‘.'§:,1anded,
same day or within the next two days. The jury shall be ,
summoned upon an order of the Justice, from the citizens of

the recinct, and not from the bystanders.

Ec. 544. At the time appointed for the trial, the Justice

shall proceed to call from the jurors summoned, the names of same-
the persons to constitute the jury for the trial of the issue.
The jury, by consent of the parties, may consist of any num-
ber not more than six nor less than three.

SEC. 545. If a suflicient number of com etent and
indifferent jurors do not attend, the Justice shall ct others
to be summoned from the vicinity, and not from the bystand-
ers, sufhcient to complete the jury.

SE0. . 546. Either party may challenge the jurors. The Challenging
challenges shall be either peremptory or for cause. Each party Jurors.
shall be entitled to three peremptory challenges. Either party
may challen for cause on any grounds set forth in Section
One Hundre and Sixty-Three. Challenges for cause shall be
tried by the Justice in a summary manner, who may examine
the juror challenged and witnesses.

Same.

CHAPTER 4.—JUpGMENT AND EXECUTION.

SEC. 547. Judgment that the action be dismissed without
rejudice to a new action, may be entered, with costs, in the Judgment of
ollowing cases: First—-When the laintiff voluntaril dis- $:,°.':::,“.§:‘
misses the action before it is iinally su mitted. Second— en g,*‘,fg§*§;;1n
he fails to appear at the time specified in the summons, or entered-
u on adjournment, or within one hour thereafter. Third-
hen it is objected at the trial, and appears by the evidence
that the action is brought in the wron county or precinct; but
if the objection be taken and overrule , it shall be cause only
of reversal on appeal, and shall not otherwise invalidate the

H

114

Jud ent
by dgjezlfgult.

Jury trial not
demanded.

J udgment.

LAWS OF UTAH.

judgment; if not taken at the trial, it shall be deemed waived,

and shall not be a cause of rever .

SEC. 548. When the defendant fails to appear and
answer 'udgment shall be ‘ven for the plaintiff, as follows:
First——l en a copy of t e account, note, bill or other
obligation upon Whlch the action is brought, was filed with the
J ustice at the time the summons was issued, judgment shall
be given without further evidence, for the sum s eciiied in the
summons. Second—In other cases the Justice s all hear the
evidence of the plaintiff and render judgment for such sum
only as shall appear by the evidence to be just, but in no case
exceeding the amount specified in the summons.

SEC. 549. Upon issue joined, it‘ a Jury trial be not de-
manded, the Justice shall hear the evidence and decide all
guelstions of fact and of law, and render judgment accord-
in . ,

g gnu. 550. Upon a verdict, the Justice shall immediately
render judgment accordingly. When the trial is by the

‘‘°“' and When Justice, judgment shall be entered immediately after the close

entered, etc.
Q

of g the trial, if the defendant has been arrested and is still in
custody; in other cases, it shall be entered within J four days
after the close of the trial. If the action be on contract against
two or more defendants, and the summons is served on one or
more, but not on all, the judgment shall be entered up only
against those who were served or have voluntarily appeared, if
the contract be a several, or a joint and several contract; but if
the contract be a joint contract’ only, the judgment shall be
entered up against all the defendants, but shall only be en-
forced against the joint property of all, and the individual
property of the defendants served or who have voluntarily
appeared in the action. In an action on a contract, or obh-
gation for the direct payment of money, judgment for the
laintitf, whether the same be by default, or after verdict or
ecision of the Court, shall follow the contract or obligation.

SEC. 551. VVhen the amount found due to either party

When amount exceeds the sum for which the Justice is authorized to enter

exceeds
jurisdiction.

When defend-

ant otters to
allow udg-
ment or

specified sum.

Judgment
when defend-
ant is subject
to arrest.

judgment, such arty may remit the excess, and the judgment
may be rendere for the residue.

SEC. 552. If the defendant, at any time before the trial,
offer in writing to allow judgment to be taken against him for
a specified sum, the plaintiff may immediately have judgment
therefor, with the costs then accrued; but if he do not accept
such offer before the trial, and fail to recover in the action a
sum equal to the offer, he shall not recover costs, but costs
shall be adjudged aggainst him, and if he recover, be deducted
from his recovery. ut the offer, and failure to accept it, shall
not be given in evidence to affect the recovery otherwise than
as to costs as above provided.

SEC. 553. When a judgment is rendered in a case, where
the defendant is subject to arrest and imprisonment thereon,
as Sliall be so stated in the judgment and entered in the

oc et.

SEC. 554. When the prevailing party is entitled to costs

NINETEENTH SESSION. -115

by this Chapter, the. justice shall add their amount to the Com tom
verdict, or in case of a. failure of the laintiif -to recover, or in included in
case of a dismissal of the action, sh enter up judgment in ‘“°‘"’°“"'
favor of defendant for the amount of such costs.

SEC. 555. The Justice, on demand of the party in whose
favor judgment is rendered, shall give him a transcri t there-
of, which may be filed and docketed in the office of t e Clerk §}’“§‘.‘,'§i_,,’,‘,§’.§nt,
of the Probate Court for the county where the judgment was
rendered. The time of the recei t of the transcript by the
Clerk shall be noted by him t ereon, and entered in the
docket, and from that time executions may be issued by the
Clerk on such judgments, to the Sheriff of any other county
of the Territory in the same manner as upon judgments
recovered in the higher Courts. All process upon judgments
recovered in Justices’ Courts, to be executed within the same
county, shall be issued by the Justice or his successors in
oHice. No judgment rendered by a. Justice of the Peace shall Prgcm on
create any lien upon any lands of the defendant, unless a iittlivgiglsexiletd.
transcript of such judgment certified by the Justice, be filed
and recorded in the ofiice of the County Recorder. When
such transcript is to be filed in any other county than that in
which the Justice resides, such transcript shall be accom anied
with the certificate of the Count Clerk as to the ofiici char-
acter of the Justice. When so led, and recorded in the office men-
of the Recorder for any county, such jud ent shall consti-
tute a lien upon, and bind the lands an tenements of the
judgment debtor, situated in the county where such transcript
may be filed and recorded in favor of such judgment creditor,
as if such judgment had been rendered in the Probate Court
for such county.

SEC. 556. Execution for the enforcement of a judgment Execumn
in a J ustice’s Court, may be issued on the application of the may issue.
party entitled thereto, at any time within three years from the
entry of judgment.

SEC. 557. The execution when issued by a J ustice, shall Form of
be directed to the Sheriff, or to a constable of the county, and exec won-
subscribed by the Justice by whom the judgment was rendered,
or by his successor in office. It shall intelligibly refer to the
judgment, by stating the names of the parties, and the name
of the Justice before whom, and of the Count and precinct
where, and the time when it was rendered, t e amount of
judgment, if it be for money, and if less than the whole is due,
the true amount due thereon. It shall contain, in like cases,
similar directions to the Sheriff, or Constable, as are required
by the provisions of Title Seven of this Act, in an execution to
the Territorial Marshal, or Sheriff.

SEC. 558. The Sheriff, or Constable, to whom the execu- How
tion is directed shall proceed to execute the same in the same executed-
manner as the Territorial Marshal, or Sh eriff, is required, by
the provisions of Title Seven of this Act, to proceed upon exe-
cutions directed to him; and the Constable, when the execution
is directed to "him, shall be vested for that pu ose with all
the powers of the Territorial Marshal, or She ' . And Sec-

116

Sections, etc.,
applicable to
Justices’
Courts.

Proviso.

Provisions

up licable

to ustices’
Courts.

Docket,
how kept.

Same; entries
to be evidence.

LAWS OF UTAH.

tions Two Hundred and Twelve, Two Hundred and Thirteen

and from two Hundred and Fifteen to Two Hundred and
Thirt -four, both inclusive, and Two Hundred and Thirty-Six

and 0 Hundred and Thirty-Seven of Chapter One, said Title’
and Cha ter Two, of the same Title, are hereby made applicai
‘ble to ustices’ -Courts and proceedings therein, the word
“Justice” being inserted in lieu of the words “Judge” and
“Clerk,” whenever they occur, and a Constable to whom, and
his successor in office, the writ is given, shall have all the
powers and be subject to all the duties and liabilities therein
given to or imposed upon the Territorial Marshal, or Sheriff;

provided, that the words “in an amount not exceeding fifty

dollars,” in Section Two Hundred and Forty-One shall be
deemed omitted.

CHAPTER 5.—-GENERAL PROVISIONS.

SEC. 559. Those provisions of this Act which are referred
to in this Title and no other, shall, in addition to the rovi-
sions embraced in this Title, be applicable to Justices’ ‘ourts
and roceedings therein.

‘E0. 560. Every Justice shall keep a book denominated

a “docket,” in which he shall enter: First-—The title of every
action or proceeding. Second—The ob'ect of the action or
proceeding; and if a sum of mone be c aimed, the amount of
the demand. Third—The date 0 the summons and the time
of its return; and if an order to arrest the defendant be made,
or a writ of aetachment be issued, a statement of these facts.
Fourth—The time when the parties, or either of them ap ar,
or their non-a pearance, if default be made; a minute 0 the
pleadings an motions, if in writing, referring to them, if not
in writing, a concise statement of the material parts of the
pleading, and of all motions made during the trial by either
party, and his decisions thereon. Fifth-—Every adjournment,
stating on whose application, whether on oath, evidence or
consent, and to what time. Sixth—The demand for a trial by
jury, when the same is made, and by whom made, the order
for the jury, and the time appointed for the trial and the return
of the jury. Seventh—The names of the jury who appear and
are sworn, the names of all witnesses sworn, at whose re uest.
Eighth——The verdict of the jury, and when received. the
jury disagree, and are discharged, the fact of such disagree-
ment and discharge. Ninth—The judgment of the Court,
apecifyinqg‘ the costs included, and the time when rendered.
enth— e issuin of the execution, when issued, and to
whom; the renew s thereof, if any, and when made, and a.
statement of any money paid to the Justice, and when and by
whom. Eleventh——The receipt of a notice of ap al, if anybe
given, and of the appeal bond, if any be file , and of the
making and delivery of a transcript of his judgment or docket.

SEC. 561. The several articulars of the last Section
specified, shall be entered un er the title of the action to which

NINETEENTH SESSION. 117

they relate, and at the time when they occur. Such entries in
a. J u stice’s docket, or a transcript thereof, certified by the Jus-
tice, or his Successor in ofiice, shall be primary evidence to
prove the facts so stated therein.

SEC. 562. A Justice Shall keep an alphabetical index to mdexm
his docket in which shall be entered the names of the parties
to each ju ent, with a reference to the page of entry. The
names of the plaintiffs Shall be entered 1n the index, in the
alphabetical order of the first letter of the family names.

SEC. 563. It Shall be the duty of every Justice, upon the To es de-
expiration of his term of office, to de osit with his successor §3°cc°«§’:51so‘i'-fth
his official dockets, as well his own ast ose of his predecessors,
which may be in his custody, to kee as public records. If the
ofiice of a Justice become vacant by ‘S death, or removal from
the precinct, or otherwise, before his successor is elected and

ualnied the dockets in possession of such Justice shall be
e sited with the County Clerk of the County, to be by him
de 'vered to the successor in office of the J ust1ce.

SEC. 564. Any Justice with whom the docket of his pre- An, Jugtjce
decessors is deposited, may issue execution or other rocess, grgg,{,3,§,gg8_
upon a. judgment there entered and unsatisfied, in t e same
manner and with the same effect as the Justice by whom the
judgment was entered mi l1t have done. In case of the crea-
tion of a new County, or t 1e change of the boundary between
two Counties, any Justice into whose hands the docket of a -
Justice formerly acting as Such within the Same territory may
come, shall for the purposes of this Section be considered the
successor of said former Justice.

SEC. 565. The Justice elected or a pointed to fill a
vacanc , Shall be deemed the successor o the Justice whose Who deemed
office ecame vacant before the expiration of a full term. ‘“°°°5°°'°
When the full term expires, the same or another person elected
to take the oflice in the Same precinct, from that time shall be

deemed the Successor.

S130. 566. When two or more Justices are equally enti- Same.
tled, under the last Section, to be deemed the Successors in
office of a Justice, the Judge of the Probate Court for the
Count Shall, by a certificate: Subscribed by him and filed in
the o ce of the Count Clerk, designate which Justice Shall
be the successor of a ustice going out of oflice, or whose office
has become vacant. -

SEC. 567. The summons, execution, and every other Paws, how
pelper made or issued by a Justice, exce t a subpoena, shall be filled “P-

11 ed without a blank left to be fl ed by another, other-
wise it S all be void. '

SEC. 568. In case of the Sickness, or other disability, or
necessary absence of a Justice on a return day of a Summons, giggrtfggg <gc_
or at the time a pointed for a trial, another J ustice of the Same ’
County or an a 'oinin precinct of the County, may, at his re-
quest, attend in is be alf, and shall thereupon become vested
with the power for the time being, of the Justice before whom
the summons was returnable. In that case, the proper entry of
the proceedings before the attending Justice, subscribed by

1'18 LAWS or UTAH.

him, shall be made in the docket of the Justice before whom
the summons was returnable. If the case be adjourned, the
Justice, before whom the summons was returnable, may
resume jurisdiction.
8pec,a,de_ SEC. 569. The Justice may, at the request of the arty,
putationto and on being satisfied that it IS expedient, specially epute
“’"° ‘’“’°"' any discreet person of suitable age, and not interested in the
action, to serve a summons or execution with or without an
order to arrest the defendant, or with or without a writ of
attachment. The said Justice shall be liable on his oilicial
bond for all ofiicial acts of the person so deputed. Such depu-
tation shall be in writing on the process.
mummy of S130. 570. The person deputed shall have the authority
the deputation of a constable in relation to the service, execution and return
of such process, and shall be subject to the same obligations.
constable to SEC. 571. A constable, notwithstanding the expiration of
gomzguete or his term of office, may roceed and complete the execution of
p§§c°ess.°" all final process, which e has begun to execute, in the same
manner as if he still continued in office, and his sureties shall
be liable to the same extent.
ccgtfmwxggm SEC. 572. A Justice may unish as for contempt persons
Emma guilty of the following acts, an no other: First—Disorderly,
contemptuous, or insolent behavior toward the Justice while
holding the Court, tending to interrupt the due course of a
trial or other judicial proceeding. Second—-A breach of the
the peace, boisterous cenduct, or violent disturbance in the
resence of the Justice or in the immediate vicinity of the
ourt held by him, tending to interrupt the due course of trial
or other judicial proceedings. Third—Disobedience or resist-
ance to the execution of a lawful order or process, made or
issued by him. Fourth—Disobedience to a subpoena duly
served, or refusing to be sworn or answer as a witness. Fifth-
Rescuing any person or property in the custody of an oflicer
by virtue of an order or process of the Court held b him.
SEO. 57 3. When a contempt isfcommitted in t e imme-
when and diate view and resence of the Justice, it may be punished
how punished. summarily, for w ich an order shallbe made reciting the facts,
as occurring in such immediate view and resence, ad'udging
that the person roceeded against is there y guilty 0 a con-
tempt, and that e be punished as therein prescribed. When
the contempt is not committed in the immediate view and
presence of the Justice, a warrant of arrest may be issued b
such Justice, on which the person so guilty may be arreste
and brou ht before the Justice immediately, when an op or-
tunity to heard in his defense or excuse shall be given. he
Justice may thereupon discharge him, or may convict him of
the offense. A Justice may punish for contempts by fine or
imprisonment, or both; such a iine not to exceed in any case
fifty dollars, and such imprisonment one day.
SEC. 574. The conviction, specifying particularly the
Conviction offense and the judgment thereon, shall be entered by the
how enteréa. Justice in his doc et. -
SEC. 575. Justices of the Peace may issue subpoenas in

NINETEENTH SESSION. 119

any action or proceeding in the Courts held by them, and linal su,,pa,m,__
Brocess on an judgment recovered therein, to any part of the

ounty. A ustice of the Peace may issue a summons to any
person a resident of his precinct, to appear before him at his
oflice to act as interpreter in any action or proceeding in his
Court. Such summons shall be served and returned in like
manner as a subprnna issued by a Justice. Any person so
summoned shall, for a failure to attend at the time and place S“mm°“"'
named in the summons, be deemed guilty of a contempt, and
may be punished accordingly.

SEC. 57 6. Justices of the Peace may issue commissions to Commissions
take the depositions of witnesses out of this Territory, and f,‘§,p“;§,‘;,o,,,,
settle interrogatories to be annexed thereto, and direct the
manner in which the commissions shall be returned. The pro-
visions of Title Eleven of this Act, so far as the same are con-
sistent with the jurisdiction and owers of Justices’ Courts,
shall be applicable to Justices’ ourts, and to actions and
proceedings therein, the word “Justice” being deemed inserted
in lieu of “Clerk” and “Judge” wherever the same occur.

SEC. 577. A new trial may be granted by the Justice, on
motion, within ten days after the an of judgment, for an Ngvvt trial» for
of the following causes: First—Acci ent or surprise, whic 3}-ai1te°3."E°°
ordinary prudence could not have guarded against. Second-
Excessive damages, appearing to have been given under the
influence of passion. Third—InsufIiciency of the evidence to
justify the verdict or other decision. Fourth—Newly dis-
covered evidence material for the party making the a plication,
which he could not with reasona le diligence have iscovered
and roduced at the time.

EC. 578. The application shall be made u on aflidavit
and notice. The affidavit shall be filed with the ustice, with APP“°““°"°
a statement of the grounds upon which the arty intends to
rely. The adverse party ma use counter a davits on the
motion, provided they be file one day previous to the hearing
of théa motign. A (1 fi d 1 d t

no. 5 9. 11 art issatis e wit 1 a ju gmen ren-
dered in a J ustice’sy ourty: may appeal therefrom to the Pro- éigiil’ h°w
bate Court for the County, any time within thirty days after
the rendition of 'udgment: provided, that no appeal shall be
taken for a sum ess than twenty dollars. The appeal shall be
taken by filing a notice thereof with the Justice, and serving a
copy on the adverse party. .

SEC. 580. All causes appealed to the Probate Court shall Qgeuggrtgg?
be tried anew in said Court, and said Court may regulate by
rule the practice in such cases, in all respects not provided for
by statute.

SEC. 581. Upon receiving the notice of appeal, and on Justice
payment of the fees of the Justice, and filing an undertaking requireg to
as required in the next Section, the Justice shall, within ’1ive.‘,’§s“f1‘?,§‘ket,°f,’%'},’:

days, ‘transmit to the Clerk of the Probate Court a certified
copy of his docket, the pleadings, all notices, motions and
other pa ers filed in the cause, the notice of appeal and under-
taking filed; and the Justice may be compelled by the Probate

120

A lmad
etyegtmualbye

min: under-
taking, etc.

Adverse

‘ Party may

except.

Staying of

LAWS OF UTAH.

Court, by an order entered upon motion, to transmit such
papers, and may be fined for neglect or refusal to transmit the
sa.me. A ce ed copy of such order may be served on the
Justice, by the arty or his attorney. In the Probate Court,
either arty sha have the benefit of all legal objections made
in the ustice’s Court.

SEC. 582. An appeal from a J ustice’s Court_ shall not be
e’iiectual for any p se, unless _ an undertaking be filed ,
within five days after ' g the notice of 3pBeal, with two or
more sureties, in the sum of one hundred o ars, for the pa -
ment of the costs on the appeal, or if a stay of proceedings
claimed, in a sum equal to twice the amount of the judgment,
including costs, when the judgment is for the payment of
money, or twice the value of the property, including costs,
when the judgment is for the recovery of speciiic _ personal
property, and shall be to the effect, when the action is for the
recove of money, that the appellant will pay the amount of
the ju gment appealed from, and all costs if the appeal be
withdrawn or dismissed, or the amount of any judgment, and
all costs that may be recovered against him in said action in
the Probate Court. When the action is _for the recovery of
specific personal pro rty, the undertaking shall be to the
e ect that the ap e ant will ay the judgment and costs"
atppealed from, an obey the 0 er of the Court made therein,
i t e appeal be withdrawn and dismissed, or will pay the
amount of any judgment and costs which may be recovered
against him in said action in the Probate Court, and  obe
any order made by the Court therein. The undertaking s
be accompanied by the aflidavits of the sureties that they are
residents of the County, and are each worth the amount s ecl-
iied in the undertaking, over and above all their just ebts
and liabilities, exclusive of property exempt from execution.
The adverse party may, however, except to the sufficiency of
the sureties, within two days after the i1ling_ of the undertak-
ing, and unless they and other sureties justify before the Jus-
tice from whose Court the appeal 1S taken, within two days
thereafter, upon notice to the adverse tpéaerty, the appeal shall
bp trlegarded a.tSif:fIltC1)1111l(131‘l3akiIltg hagaal dnf given. 1Ad<_lepoasi1y
o e amoun o e ju men ap e rom, me u ing
costs, or of the value of tlge property and all costs, in actions
f(1)ll' Hiebiéecovery pf specific1:lpefii'shoIilial1%_ro erty,]t;l1ie J usttipne,
sa equivaenttote 'goteune 'n in s
Section mentioned; and in such cases the Justice sha trans-
mit the E10116 to t%hehCl(§erk of the Court, to be by him paid
outonteor ero te ourt. .

SEC. 583. If an execution be issued on the iiling of the
undertaking, staying all proceedings, the Justice shall, by
order, direct the oflicer to stay all proceedings on the same.
Such officer shall, upon payment of his fees for services
rendered on the execution, thereupon relinquish all progrty
levied upon, and deliver the same to the judgment de tor,
together with all mone s collected from sales or otherwise. If
his fees be not paid, the oiiicer may retain so much of the

NINETEENTH SESSION. 121

property or proceeds thereof, as may be necessary to pay the
sarne.
SEC. 584. Costs in the action shall be allowed to the
revailing party in a J ustice’S Court. The party in whose °°°""

avor a 'udgment is rendered, and who claims his costs, shall
file wit the Justice, within two days after the verdict or
decision of the Court, a memorandum of the items of his costs
in the action or proceeding, which shall be verilied as precribed
in Section Four Hundred and Eighty-Four.

SEC. 585. Justices of the Peace shall receive from the
Sheriff, or constables of their county, all moneys collected on ',’e"§31",‘2§'a to
any process or order issued by their Courts respectivel , and gggiggm,
all moneys paid to them in their ofiicial capacity, an shall pay over.
pay the same over to the parties entitled to receive them,
.without delay. For a violation of this section the may be
removed from ofice, and shall be deemed guilty 0 a misde-
meanor.

SE0. 586. Justices of the Peace may, in all cases, require Deposit of
a. deposit of money, or an undertaking, as security for costs of };?,‘{.“§,?g,§‘°"
Court, before issuing a Summons.

SEC. 587. The provisions of Cha ter One, Title Ten, and Provisions
Sections Four Hundred and Ninety- ree to Five Hundred %},’§1.§§'%}Z,l.§-
and One, both inclusive, and Five Hundred and Four to Five °°“"‘“°
Hundred and Six, both inclusive, Title Fifteen of this Act,
and the miscellaneous rovisions of Title Eighteen, shall be
a plicable to J ustice’s ourts and actions therein, the word

“ ustice” being deemed inserted in leiu of the word “Clerk,”
wherever it occurs.

. TITLE XVII.

.Zl{z'scellaneous Prom'sz'ons.

I SEC. 588. The Supreme Court may make rules not
inconsistent with the Or anic Act and laws of the Territory, for 33111;: 01
its own government an the government of the District Court; how made.
but such rules shall not be in force until thirty days after their
adoption and publication.

SEO. 589. If an action be brought against a Territorial Actions
Marshal, or Sheriii‘, for an act done by virtue of his office, and a inst
he give written notice thereof to the" sureties on any bond of °°’°’ °'°°'
indemnity received by him, the fllilidgment recovered therein
shall be conclusive evidence of 's right to recover against
such sureties, and the Court, or Judge in vacation may, on
motion, upon notice of five days, order judgment to be entered
up ainst them for the amount so recovered, including costs.

EC. 590. Words used in this Act in the present tense, Terms
shall be deemed to include the future as well as the present; explained.
words used in the singular number shall be deemed to include
the plural, and the plural the sin ular; words used in one
gender may include either; writing S all be deemed to include
grinting or printed paper; oath to include amrmation or

eclaration; signature or Subscription to include mark when .

122 LAWS on UTAH.

the person cannot write, his name being written near it, and
witnessed b a person who writes his own name as witness; the
words “re estate” or “real property,” to include mining
claims; joint authority, given to three or more persons, is given
to the majority, unless restricted. Whenever the word Terri-
tory is used, it shall be held to include and apply to the
District of Columbia.

gmege, SEC. 591. In all cases where an undertaking with sureties

gnhvgefggawt is reciuired by the provisions of this Act, the Judge, Justice,
or C erk, or other oihcer taking the same, shall, unless it is
otherwise provided in said Act, require the sureties to accom-
pany the same with an affidavit that they are each worth the
sum specified in the undertaking, over and above all their just
debts and liabilities, exclusive of property exem t from
execution; provided, that when the amount speciiie in an
undertaking exceeds three thousand dollars, and there are
more than two sureties thereon, they may state in their affida-
vits that they are severall worth amounts less than that
expressed in the underta ' g, if the whole amount be
equivalent to that of two sufficient sureties.

Writs of SEC. 592. Writs of certiorari and mandamus ma be
§’,§'$‘;':,}_§"°“’“' issued in the cases precribed by this Act, by Judges o the

5=8“°“- Courts in term time or in vacation, and may, in the discretion
of the Judge issuing the writ, be made returnable, and a
. hearing may be bad on the return thereof in vacation.
3,1,0, SEC. 593. Whenever property has been taken by an
g-gggrgnt of oflicer under a writ of attachment in pursuance of the provi-
attachment. gents 03 this Act, a(11id it hshallfbehmade to appear satisfactorily
t e on ,or u et ereo ,t attheinterestso t e arties
to the action will sugtained by the sale thereof, the Cogrt, or
Judge, may order such pro rty to be sold, in the same
manner as pro rty is sold 11I1(£()e.‘ an execution, and the proceeds
tso ble depiositehaillll gourtatg abide the judgment in lthe aaietion.
uc or ers em eonl u nnotice tote verse
party, or his attorney, in case s1}1TchIp%.rty has been personally
served with a summons in the action.

SEC. 594. A copy of an record,document or paper in the
§,°;','=gg'}, custody of a public oiiicer 0 this Territory, or of the United
gr;-hr? etc. to States, within this Territory, certified under the official seal, or

me’ verified by the oath of such officer, to be a true, full and
correct copy of the original in his_custody, may be read 
evidence in any action or proceeding in the Courts of this
Territory, in like manner, and with the like effect, as the
original could be if produced. _ _
commem b _SEo. 535. When twobor more perisons, associate in any
when sum- usiness, ransact such usiness un er a common name
33%? whether it comprises the names of such persons or not, the
"‘““°' associates may be sued by such common name, the summons
in such cases being served on one or more of the associates,
but the jud ent in such cases shall bind only the joint
property of t ie associates.
Substitution SEC. 596. A defendant against whom an action is

3§;’§§§,’§,f" pending upon a contract, or for specific personal property,

NINETEENTH sEssIoN. 123

may at any time before answer, upon aflidavit that a person,
not a party to the action, makes upon him, and without any
collusion with him, a demand upon the same contract, or for
the same property, upon due notice to such person, and the
adverse party, apply to the Court for an order to substitute
such person in his place and discharge him from liability to
either party, on his de ositing in Court the amount claimed
on the contract, or de 'vering the property, or its value, to
such person as the Court may direct, and the Court may, in
its discretion, make the order.

SEC. 597. Any person shall be entitled to intervene in an Intervention,
action who has an interest in the matter in litigation, in the “"‘°“ ‘“°"°“'
sucess of either of the parties to the action, or an interest
against both. ' An intervention takes place when a third person
is permitted to become a party to an action between other
persons, either by %oining the plaintiff in claimin what is
sought by the comp aint, or by unitin with the de endant in
resistin the claims of the plaintiff, or demanding anything
adverse y to both the laintilf and the dgfendant.

SEC. 598. A thir person may intervene either before or ,Who may
after issue has been joined in the cause. "“’°"°“°'

SEC. 599. The intervention shall be by petition or com- How and Wm,
plaint filed in the Court in which the action is pending; and it to set forth-
must set fourth the grounds on which the intervention rests.

A copy of the petition or complaint shall be served u n the
arty or parties to the action, against whom anyt ing is
emanded, who shall answer it as if it were an original con-

plaint in the action.

SEC. 600. The Court shall detennine u on the interven- comm
tion at the san1e time that the action is deci ed; if the claim d°‘°°'m‘“°-
of the party intervening is not sustained, he shall pay all costs
incurred by the intervention.

SEC. 601. No action to obtain a discovery under oath, in $§’t‘§?,‘,‘d‘f;.
aid of the prosecution or defense of another action or proceed— g<,’,‘{,‘;,'g';,,°‘°~
ing, shall be allowed.

SEC. 602. In all cases, not otherwise provided for in this Suretiesma
Act, where sureties are required to 'ustify, they shall appear 3‘,’,§§f3‘§‘&,
before the officer or person authorize to take the justification,
and may be examined under oath by such officer or person, and
the adverse party touching their qualifications as sureties,
which examination shall be reduced to writing and subscribed
by the sureties if required. If, upon such examination, it
shall a pear to such officer or person that said sureties, or
either 0 them, have the necessary qualifications of such, he

shall so indorse upon the statement, and cause the same to be
filed, and thereu on the justification shall be complete. ‘

‘ SEC. 603. e repeal of a law does not revive one previ- Repealof Inw-
ously repealed by it, nor affect any rights, duties, or penalties
which have arisen under it.

SEC. 604. Laws and parts thereof, and words and phrases, How my
shall be construed in accordance with the customary usage of strued-
the languages. _ _ _ _

SEC. 605. “An Act in Relation to Abatement in Cm}

- 124

Acts repealed.

Amendments

LAWS OF UTAH.

Actions, approved January sixteenth,. eighteen hundred and
sixty-one,’ “An Act Containing Provisions. Applicable to the
Laws of the Territory of Utah, approved January fourteenth,
eighteen hundred and fifty-four; ’ “An act Sup lementary 

the Act Regulating the Mode of Procedure 1n ivil Cases in

the Courts of the Territory of Utah,” approved December ‘

thirtieth, eighteen hundred and dfty-two, approved February
nineteenth, eighteen hundred and sixt -nine; are hereby re-
pealed; and so much of “An Act Provi  for A peals to the
upreme Court,” approved January eighteent , eighteen
hundred and sixt —one, and “An Act Governing Writs of
Attachments and arnishments,” ap roved January twentieth,
e’ hteen hundred and sizét-y-Iive; and “An Act Reglulating the
ode of Procedure in Ci ' Cases in the Courts of t e Temtory
of Utah,” ap roved December thirtieth, ei hteen hundred and
dfty-two; an “An Act Declaring Certain T in s to be roperty
Specifying the Owner Thereof, Defining the ode of cover-
ing its Possession, and Providing for Redress of any Grievance
that may arise from Proceedings under this Act, ’ approved
January twentieth, eighteen hundred and sixty; and “An Act
authorizing the Issuing of Executions against Judgment
Debtors, Non-Residents of the County,” approved January
nineteenth, eio-hteen hundred and sixty-four; and “An Act in
Relation to t e Judiciary,” approved January nineteenth,
eighteen hundred and iifty-iive; and “An Act in Relation to
Justices of the Peace,” approved February fourth, eighteen
hundred and fifty-two; “An Act Authorizing the Governor to
A point Commissioners ‘to take Acknowledgement of Deeds or
ot er Contracts, and Afiidavits and Depositions in the States
and other Territories of the United States;” approved Februar
eighteenth, eighteen hundred and sixty-eight, as conflict with
the provisions of this Act, are hereby repealed.

AN ACT

Amending “An Act Amendatory of and Supplementary to
tke Charter of St. George City,” Approved February 21,

1868.
[Approved February 18, 1870.]

' Be it enacted by the Governor and Legislative Assembly
of the Territory of Utah: That the second Section of “an
Act amendatory of and sulp lementary to the Charter of St.
Geor e City,” Approved e ruary Twenty-First, Eighteen
Hun red and Sixpy-Eight, be amended by adding to said
Section the words ollowing, to wit: provided, that owners of
city lots, drawing water from the public sects for irri ting the
same may for each and eve lot so irrigating, be xed not
exceeding the amount spec’ ed in this Section, to be used in

 

