1. ~ 39. Until an alteration be made, by the court of appeals, in the forms
of wnts, the same shall be, as nearly as may he assimilated to those hereto­
fore used, in the general court. 1788, c. 67; 12 &at. Larg. 738; 1792, c. 
66, R. C. 
2. § 40. All writs, summonses and other legal process, shall be issued by 
the clerk, and bear teste in his name; and shall be returnable as hereinafter
directed, [see post. No. 32,] except subpcenas for witnesses, which may be re­
turnable, either to the next court, or immediately, or to any day of the term. 
Ibid. see § 23.
3. ~ 41. Except in cases where it shall be otherwise expressly provided by 
. 
law, no writ of capias ad respllndendum, from any euperies or inferior court of 
Jaw, shall be issued against any person, in any other county or corporation,
than that in which he resides, until a non est inoentu« has been returned in his
or her own county or corporation, upon a capias issued against such defen-
dant, for the same cause of action; and every writ issued contrary herets, 
hall be void and dismis ed, upon the first calling thereof :(a) Prooided never-
tbeless, That where two or more persons are or shall be, jointly, or jointly and
severally, bound for the performance of any contract, or for the payment of
any money or tobacco, by bond, covenant, or otherwi e, it shall be lawful to 
rosecute such persons jointly, in any county or corporation wherein either of
them may reside, and proce s shall be i sued accordingly from the court
having jurisdiction over such county or corporation, and shall be served on
the non-resident defendant if h be found therein : Proeided also, That such
writ ma issue ag in t any deft ndant qi" e eii an , in any c unty or c rp r a- 
i ns_ wit 'n the cau e of a tio o-r an art th r of aro ,( 1) although uch
d f ndant r d f ndan d n t rest e t erein, and although no suchprevious 
v rit hall hav.£_ i ·u d in ~~ _ <?r 1 r wn unty r r oration: (See post. No. 
54.] And pro id d moreover, t, where any per on hath no fixed or known
residence in any county or corporation, within thi commonwealth, such writ 
ay be issued and served upon him, in any county or corporation in which he
may be found. From Ibid. and c. 67, R. C.; l 09, c, 6, ed. 1812, Am. Re»,
1819. See act of April 2, 1 39, Ses. Acts, 1 39, c, 65, p. 42. 
4. § 42. It shall not be lawful to demand bail, in any personal action, ex· 
c pt as is hereinafter particularly mentioned.(2) And in all such actions
wherein bail may not lawfully be demanded, the plaintiff or his attorney shall,
on pain of having his suit di missed with costs,( b) endorse, on the original 
writ or subsequent process, the true species of action, anil that bail is not re­
quired, in order that the sheriff may be informed how to govern himself in the
execution thereof; and, in the cases before mentioned, the sheriff may take the
engagement of an attorney practising in the court, from which the process
issued, endorsed on the writ, that he will appear for the defendant or defen­
dants, and such appearance shall be entered with the clerk in the office on the
return day of the writ. And although no such engagement of an attorney
shall be offered to the sheriff, he shall nevertheless be restrained from commit­
ting the defendant to prison, or detaining him in his custody, for want of ap­
pearance bail, but the sheriff in such case shall return the writ executed; and
if the defendant shall fail to appear thereto, there shall be the like proceeding
against him only, as is hereinafter directed against defendants and their ap­
pearance bail, where such is taken. Nov. 1645, act 14, I &at. Larg, 305; 
M•. 1657-8, act 34, ]bid. 448; Altered from.Oct. 1777, 9 Stat. Larg. 404;
1788,c.67; 1792, c.66,67, :R. C. 
5. § 43. In all actions of debt, founded upon any writing obligatory, hill
or note in writing, for the payment of money( c) or tobacco, all actions of co­
venant and detinue, and all actions upon statutes specially authorizing hail to
be taken, the plaintiff may of right demand bail; and if he shall endorse on
the original writ or subsequent process, the true species of action,( I) in such
manner that his title to bail will appear thereby, and shall also endorse that
bail is required, it shall then he the duty of the sheriff to take bail accord­
ingly. lbid. See post. No. 30. 
6. § 44. In all other personal actions, it shall be lawful for any judge of the
general court, or any justice of the peace for any county or corporation, upon 
proper affidavit,(d) verifying the justice of the plaintiff's action, and shewing
probable cause to apprehend that the defendant will depart from the jurisdic­
tion of the court so that process of execution cannot be served upon him,
(see tit. EXECUTION, No. 11,] to direct bail to be taken, by endorsement on
the original writ, or subsequent process, and the sheriff shall govern bimself
accordingly.(2) Ibid. and Feb. 8, 1810, c. 47, ed. 1812; Oct. 1748, c. 59, 6 
&at. Larg. 203.
7. ~ 45. In all cases, where bail shall so have been required, by the endorse­ 
ment of the plaintiff or his attorney, or of a judge or justice, the sheriff shall
return on the writ,(e) the names of the bail by him taken, and shall return the 
bail bond or a copy thereof,(/) to the clerk's office, on the day of appearance.fa,)
And if the defendant shall fail to appear accordingly, and give special bail,(g)
the bail for appearance may defend the suit,(k) and shall be subject to the
same judgment and recovery ,(3) as the defendant might or would be subject
to, if he had appeared and given special bail. If the sheriff shall not return
bail(i) and the bail bond, or a copy thereof, and the defendant shall fail to ap­
pear and give special bail, in such case the sheriff shall have like liberty of de­
fence, and shall be subject to the same judgment and recovery, as is provided in
the case of appearance bail. If the bail, returned by the sheriff, be objected to
by the plaintiff, and be adjudged insufficient by the court,lj) and the defendant
shall fail to give special bail, the sheriff shall thereupon beconsidered a party
to the proceedings ; and, without remanding the cause to the rules, he, toge­
ther with the appearance bail, shall be subject to the same judgment and re­
covery, that the appearance bail alone would have been subject to, and shall
be entitled to the same defence. Nov. 1645, Act 14, 1 Stat. Larg. 305; 
Mar. 1657-8, Act 34, lb. 448; Mar. 1661-2, Act 46, 2 Stat. Larg. 79, 247;
Oct. 1705, c, 19, ~ 22, 3 Stat. Larg. 294; Feb. 1727, c. 3, 4 Stat. Larg .. 184;
1792, e. 66, and 67, R. C.; 1802, c. 30.(2) 
8. ~ 46. Objections to the sufficiency of the appearance bail shall be ta­
ken,( k) either at the rules, or in court, at or before the first term after the re­
turn day of the writ, and not thereafter :( 4) They shall be decided by the court,
without delay, (Ibid.) 'and the burthen of the proof shall be on the party af­ 
firming the sufficiency.' [ Su note (2) on preceding page.]
9. § 47. If the sheriff 'or appearance bail,' depart this life, before judgment 
be confirmed against him, in such case, the judgment may be confirmed against
his executors or administrators ; or, if there shall not be a certificate of probat
or administration granted, then it may be confirmed against his estate; and a_
writ of execution may in either case be issued. Ibid. 
10. § 48. 1n all cases wherein the bail being adjudged insufficient, judgment
shall be rendered against the sheriff, his executors, administrators or estate,
such sheriff and his representatives shall have the same remedy against the
estate of the bail, as against the estate of the defendant. Rev. 1819. 
11. § 49. In every case, where judgment shall be confirmed against any de­
fendant or defendants, and the appearance bail, or the sheriff, or the executors,
administrators or estate of such appearance bail or sheriff, the court, on mo­
tion of such bail or sheriff, or executors or administrators, or other person
on behalf of the estate of such sheriff or bail, may order an attachment against
the estate of such defendant or defendants, returnable to the next succeeding 
court, and upon the eecution and return of such attachment, the court shall 
order the estate seized, or so much thereof as will be sufficient to satisfy the
judgment and costs, and all costs accruing under the attachment, to be sold as
goods taken in execution upon a fei facias ; and, out of the money, such
judgment and costs shall be satisfied, and the surplus, if any, restored, to the 
defendant or defendants, when required. Act Nov. 1645, 1 Stat. Larg. 305;
179-l, c. 66, R. C.(l) 
12. § 50. In any personal action, in which bail shall not have been required,
the court may at any time before final judgment, for good cause shewn,(3) rule 
the defendant to gi\'e special bail, and, on his failure to do so, may refuse him 
permission to plead, or may set aside any plea already pleaded by him, and
award a writ of enquiry, or otherwise proceed to judgment according to law,
or may cause him to be arrested and committed to prison. Alt. from 1792, c.
67, R. C.; and Oct. 1710, c. 11, § 17, 3 Stat. Larg. 611. 
13. § 51. Any judge of the general court, when not sitting in court, or any 
justice of the peace, or any mayor, recorder or alderman of a corporation, may 
take recognizance of special bail, in any action depending in any court of
record within this commonwealth, which shall be transmitted by the person
taking the same,(8) before the next succeeding court, to the clerk of the said
court,(/) to be filed with the papers in such action; the form of which recog-
nizance shall be in substance as followeth, to wit: County> (or corpora-
tion,) to ioit t Jf-femorandum, tlmt upon the day of in the year ,
E. F. of the county of personally appeared befi ore me, one of the judges
of the general court, ( or a justice of the peace for the county or corporation
aforesaid,) and undertook for C. D. at the suit of A. B. in an action of 
now depending in the (here naming the court where the suit is pending) tAat 
in case the said C. D. shall be cast in the said suit, he the said C. D. will pay
and satisfy the condemnation of the court, or render his body to prison in exe­
cution for the same, or that he the said E. F. roil/ do it for him. Given under
my hand this day of G. H. Ibid. Feb. 8, 1810; May 1732, 
c, 5, 4 Stat. Larg, 328; March Ii6l, c, IO, 7 Stat. Larg. 403. 
14. § 52. The person taking such bail as aforesaid, shall, if required,(m)
at the same time, deliver to the person or persons acknowledging the recogni- 
zance aforementioned, a bail piece,(7) in substance as followeth, to wit : 
County, (or corporation,) se : C. D. of the pa,isl of in the county (or
corporation) aforesaid, is delir,ered to bail, ma a eepi corpus, unto E. F. of tu 
parisA and county {or corporation) aforesaid, at t~ suit of A. B. Gir,tJ& 
,nukr mg hand tliis day of G. H. 1788, c. 28; 1792, c, 76,
R. C.(l) 
15. ~ 53. In actions of detinue, the recognizance of bail shall be 80 changed,
as to subject the bail to the restitution of the thing, whether animate or inani­
mate, sued for, or the alternative value, as the court may adjudge.( b) If the
plaintiff, or his attorney, shall except to the sufficiency of any special bail 80 
taken out of court, notice of such exception shall be given to tile defendant,
or his attorney, a reasonable time before the same shall be tried. And if such
bail shall be adjudged insufficient by the court, the recognizance thereof shall
he discharged, and such proceedings shall be had, as if no such bail bad been
taken. 1788, c, 67; 1792, c. 66, R. C. 
16. § 54. Every special(g) bail may surrender the principal, before the court
where the suit hath been or shall he depending, at any time either before or
after judgment shall be given : Provided, That such 1!1Urrender(2) he made be­
fore the appearance day(3) of the first scire facias against the bail, returned 
executed,(4) or of the second returned nilai~: {5)(n) but, in either case, the 
special bail shall pay the costi of the scire facias, and judgment for the same
shall be entered against him aecordingly.(a) Upon such surrender, the bail
shall be discharged, and the defendant or defendants shall be committed to the
custody of the sheriff or jailor attending such court, if the plaintiff or his at­
torney shall desire the same. Or such special bail may discharge himself or
herself, by surrendering( o) the principal or principals to the sheriff, serjeant or
jailor of the county or corporation where the original writ was served ; and
such sheriff, serjeant or jailor shall receive such defendant or defendants, and
commit him, her or them, to the jail of bis county or corporation, and shall
give a receipt for the body or bodies of such defendant or defendants, which(p)
shall be by the bail transmitted to the clerk of the court where the suit is or
was depending, to be preserved and filed by him amongst the papers of such
suit, The bail shall forthwith give notice of such render to the plaintiff, his 
agent or attorney at law, if to be found within the . county or corporation.
When such surrender after judgment,(q) shall be to the sheriff, serjeant or
jailor ,(I) he shall keep such defendant or defendants in his custody, in the same
manner, and subject to the like rules, as are provided for debtors committed in
execution, for twenty days, unless the creditor, his agent or attorney, shall
sooner consent to his, her or their discharge-; and if witb_in the said twenty
days suah creditor, his attorney or agent, shall not in writing,(r) charge the
debtor or debtors in execution, he, she or they shall be forthwith discharged 
out of custody. But the plaintiff or plaintiffs may nevertheless afterwards sue
out any legal execution, without suing out a scirefacias.(s) Ibid. Nov. 1645, 
act 14, I Stat. Larg. 305; Oct. 1765, c. 22, § 4, 5, 6, 8 Stat. Larg. 120.
17. ~ 55. When the principal debtor now is or hereafter may be imprisoned, 
in any jail in the commowealth, by virtue of process from any court, or any
civil officer; and any person or persons, his special bail, shall desire to surren­
der such debtor, in discharge of the recognizance of bail; it shall be lawful
for such bail to obtain a certified copy of such recognizance, either from the
clerk where the same shall have been entered in court, or returned thereto, or
from the judge or justice who shall have taken it, where such recognizance
shall not have been returned to court ; ( which copy it shall be the duty of the
clerk, judge or justice to grant;) and to obtain, annexed to such copy of the
recognizance, a certificate from the clerk of the court, stating the situation of
the suit, in which such bail hath been entered, and specifying particularly whe­
ther final judgment hath been rendered therein, or the same be still pending :
and it shall be lawful for the bail to deliver the said certified copy of the recog­
nizance, and the said certificate of the clerk, to the sheriff, eerjeant or- iailor, 
in whose custody the debtor may be, and to demand a receipt therefor;-.f"-euch
sheriff, serjeant or jailor shall thereupon give to the bail, his agent or attorney,
a receipt for the said copy of the recognizance and c rtificat of the clerk, in
which shall moreover be expressed, that the peciaJ bail in discharge of his
recognizance aforesaid, had committed to the keeping of the aid sheriff, ser­
jeant or jailor, the body of the debtor then in the custody of such sheriff, ser­
jeant or jailer, under process from some court or civil officer of the common­
wealth, which process shall be plainly described on the face of such receipt
The debtor so committed shall be detained in custody by such sheriff, serjeant
or_ jailor, in the same manner, as he ought by law to be detained when surren­
dered under the provisions of the preceding section; save only, that where
such commitment shall be after final judgment, and to the sheriff, serjeant
or jailor in any county or corporation, other than that in which the suit was
brought, such debtor, unless sooner discharged by the consent of the plaintiff,
his agent or attorney, shall be detained in custody above twenty days, at the
rate of one day for every twenty miles of the computed distance of the place
of his confinement, from the jail of the court in which the suit was brought.
The special bail shall immediately give notice of such commitment, to the 
creditor, his agent or attorney at law, if to be found in the county or corpora­
tion wherein the suit is or was depending, and shall file with the clerk of the
court in which such suit is or was depending, the receipt of the sheriff, ser­
jeant or jailer, taken as aforesaid, and take his receipt therefor. Jan. 8, 1805, 
c. 49, td. I SOS. 
18. § 56. When, pursuant to the provisions of this act, the special bail shall
have surrendered his principal to the custody of the sheriff, serjeant or jailor,
er shall have committed him to the keeping of the sheriff, serjeant or jailor, 
in whose custody such principal was before, and shall exhibit before the court, 
in 1'hich the suit is or was depending, satisfactory evidence, that, in due time
thereafter, he gave to the creditor, his agent or attorney, such notice of the
amrender or commitment, as is hereby required ; or that such creditor, his
agent or attorney was not to be found in the county or corporation aforesaid,
and that in due time he filed with the clerk of the court the receipt of the she­
riff', serjeant or jail or, taken as aforesaid ; such bail shall thereupon be entitled 
to an ewnerdur, to be entered in court, and shall be thereafter forever dis­ 
charged from the said recognizance, in the same manner as if he had surren­
dered his principal in court. But no such eumeretur shall be entered, unless
the creditor, his agent or attorney be present in court, or have reasonable no­
tice of the application therefor. Alt. from ibid. 
19. ~ 57. Any defendant surrendered into custody, or committed by his bail,
in manner herein provided, may, at any time before final judgment shall have
been rendered in the action, discharge himself from such surrender or commit­
ment, by giving other good special bail : Provided, That the sufficiency of
such bail shall be .erified on oath, to the satisfaction of the court, judge or
justice, taking the same, and the recognizance thereof shall be duly filed with
the clerk of the court wherein the suit is depending, before such defendant
shall be discharged. • Ibid. 
20. § 58. If any defendant, having given special bail in any action, shall af­
terwards be convicted of any crime, and sentenced therefor to confinement in
the penitentiary of this state, by a court of this commonwealth, or of the Uni­
ted States, or shall be lawfully arrested, and delivered over to the executive
authority Gf the United States, or of any state or territory thereof, upon a
charge of any crime committed out of the jurisdiction of this state, and shall
thereupon be carried beyond the limits of this commonwealth, such special
bail shall be discharged from his recognizance, in the same manner as if such
defendant had died at the time of such sentence, or of such delivery. Rev. 1819. 
21. § 59. When the sheriff or other proper officer shall return upon any ori­
ginal or mesne process, that he hathzaken the body of the defendant, and com­
mitted him to prison for want of appearance bail, the plaintiff may proceed,
and the defendant make his defence, in like manner, as if his appearance bail
had been entered and accepted. But the defendant shall not be discharged
out of custody, until he shall put in good bail, or the plaintiff shall be ruled
by the court to accept an appearance without bail. And, when any defendant,
after appearance entered, shall be confined in prison, the plaintiff may proceed
in the same manner as if he were not so confined. Prom Feb. 1727, c. 3, 4 
Stat. Larg. 185; Oct. 1748, c. 59, 6 Stat. Larg. 204; see 1792, c, 66, R. C.;
Am. at Rev. 1819. 
22. § 60. When the sheriff or other proper officer, returning the truth of
the case, upon any original or mesne process, to him directed, shall make re­
turn, that any defendant is not an inhabitant of his county or corporation, [ see 
tit. SHERIFF, No. 21,] the suit shall abate and be dismissed as to such defen­
dant,{t) if the court, from which such process issued, have jurisdiction over
such county or corporation only. Ibid. c. 76. 
23. ~ 61. When the sheriff or other proper officer shall return on any writ
of capaas, to answer in any civil action, that the defendant is not found within 
his bailiwick, [see tit. SHERIFF, No. 21,] the plaintiff may(u) either sue out an 
alias or a pluries capias, until the defendant shall be arrested, or a testaturn 
capias, where the defendant shall have gone into another county or corpora­
tion ; or may, at his election, sue out an attachment( a) against the estate of
the defendant, to force an appearance ; and if the sheriff or other officer shall
return that he hath attached any goods, and the defendant shall not appear and
replevy the same, by entering his appearance and giving special bail, in case
he shall be ruled so to do, the plaintiff may file his declaration, and proceed to 
final judgment, in the same manner as if the defendant had been arrested.( I) 
The goods attached shall remain in the' hands of the officer, until such final
judgment be entered, and then be sold in the same manner as goods taken
upon a .fteri f ocias. And, if the judgment shall not be· thereby satisfied, the
phlintiff may sue out execution for the residue; and, in case more goods be at­ 
tached than will satisfy the ju<lgment, the surplus shall be returned to the de­
fendant. March 1657-8; Act 60, 1 ·st,Jt. Larg. 466; Dec. 1662, Act 4, j 
&at. Larg. 166; Feb. 1727, c. 4, 4 Stat, Larg. 185; Oct. 17'8, c. 59, 6 &at.
Larg. 204; Ibid. c. 66. . · 
24. § 62. Where any sheriff or. other officer shall return, on any original or
mesne process to him directed, that he has been kept off by force of arms, it
shall and may be lawful for the plaintiff in 1he action in which the process so
returned was issued, either to issue an alias or pluries, as the case may be, or
to proceed in the said action against the defendant or defendants, as if such
process had been returned executed. Jan. 28, 1800, c, 257, R. C. 
25. § 63. If any writ or process shall be executed, and, for want of a re­
turn thereof to the office from which it is issued, an alias, pluries, attachment
or other process be awarded, the sheriff shall not execute such subsequent pro­
cess, but shall return the first process by him executed, if it be in his posses­
sion; but, if it be not in his possession, then he shall return the subsequent
process, with an endorsement of the execution of such first process, and the
name of the appearance bail, if any was taken; and shall also return a copy
of the bail bond, on which there shall be the same proceedings, as if the said
first process had been duly returned. 1792, c, 66, R. C. 
26. § 64. On the return of the pluries, that the defendant is not found,
the court instead of the process to outlawry(z) formerly used, may order a
proclamation to issue, warning the defendant to appear on a certain day
therein named, or that judgment will be rendered against him; which pro­
clamation shall be published on three successive court days, at the door of
the courthouse of the county or corporation, to which the last process was
directed, and also three times in some public newspaper; and if the defen­
dant fails to appear pursuant to such proclamation, the same proceedings shall
be had, and the same judgment shall be given as in other cases of default. 
Ibid. 
27. § 65. On writs of scire f acias for the renewal· of judgments, no judg­
ment shall be rendered on the return of two nihils, unless the defendant re­
sides in the county, or unless he be absent from the commonwealth, and have
no known attorney therein. But such scire f acias may be directed to the
sheriff of any county in the commonwealth, wherein the defendant or his attor­
ney shall reside or be found, which being returned served, the court may pro­
ceed to judgment thereupon, as if the defendant had resided in the county. Ibid. 
28. ~ 66. Where the defendant can be found, writs of sci re f acias from
any court, shall hereafter be served in the same manner as writs of capias 
ad rt$pondendum on which no bail is required. And where the said defen­
dant cannot be found, it shall be considered as a sufficient service of the said
writ, for the sheriff or other officer to whom the same is directed, to leave a
copy thereof with the wife of the defendant, or some free white person above
the age of sixteen years, then and there being one of the family of the defen­
dant, and found at his usual place of abode, or to leave a copy thereof at such
place of ·abode, in the manner prescribed in the next section. Jan. 1798, c, 
231, R. 0. 
29. § 67. Notices on replevin bonds, and on all other legal occasions,
wherein no particular mode is or shall he prescribed for their service, shall be
good, if giren to the party in person, or delivered in writing to any free white
person above the age of sixteen years, who, being a member of the family( l) 
of such person, and found at his usual place of abode, shall be informed of
the purport of such notice; or left at some public place at the dwelling house, 
or other known place of residence of such person, he being from home,{2)
and no such free white person of his family being found there, willing to re­
ceive such notice; and it shall be the duty of the sheriff or serjeant, when­ 
.a~rNWiiud, to serve all such notices within his bailiwick, and to make due
return thereof: the serv-ice_thereof, however, shall be good, when 1~11d~
any other person, and verified by affidavit. Altered from 1792, c. 76, R. <J. 
(Notices on all legal occasions wherein the adverse party does not reside within
the commonwealth of Virginia, and has no known agent within the same, upon
whom such notice could be served, and wherein no particular mode is or shall
be prescribed for their service, shall be good, if published in any public news­
paper printed in this commonwealth, once a week for four weeks successively:
the printer's fees for which, (if not thought unreasonable by the court,) shall
be taxed in the bill of costs, if the party chargeable therewith shall prevail in
the suit. Feb. 17, 1823p-c. 37, ~ 3.] 
30. ~ 68. In all actions or suits which may he commenced against the go­
rernor of this commonwealth, any member of the privy council, any of the
judges of the superior courts, or the sheriff of any county, during his conti­
nuance in office, instead of the ordinary process, a summons(3) shall issue, di­
rected to the sheriff or other proper officer, reciting the cause of action, and
commanding him to summon such defendant to appear, and answer the same,
on the proper return day; and if such defendant, being summoned, or after a
copy shall have been left at his usual place of abode, ten days before the re­
turn day, shall not appear to answer the same, the court shall proceed a1ainst
such defendant, in the same manner as if he had been taken upon a capias ad 
respondendum : Provided always, That after judgment, and the return of a 
jieri f 'acias, by the sheriff of that county in which the defendant in any such
case resides, that no effects, or not sufficient, are to be found in his bailiwick
to satisfy the said judgment, a capias ad satisf aciendum may be issued as in
other cases. See Oct. 1705, c, 19, § 13, 3 Stat. Larg. 291 ; 1792, c. 66, R.
C. ; 13 Stat. Larg. 437. 
31. § 69. The rules in the clerk's office of the county and corporation
courts, of the superior courts of law, and the general court, shall be holden
on the first Monday in erery month, and may be continued from day to day, 
not exceeding six da:,s.(z) Alt. from Ibid. and c, 67, R. C.; 1814, c. 31.
· 32. § 70. Every writ of capias ad respondendum or scire facias, every 
summons to answer any action, and every subprena in chancery issued from
the clerk's office of any such cenrt, shall be returnable at the option of the
plaintiff, either to the first(6) day of the next succeeding term, or in the clerk's 
office to some previous( l) rule day ; [ so much of this section, as authorizes a
capias ad respondmdum to be returned to some rule day in the clerk's office
of a county or corporation court, was suspended by acts of Feb. 24, 1820, c.
19; Mar. 3, 1821, c, 35; and repealed by act Feb. 23, 1822, c, 18,] and, if it
shall be returned not executed, any subsequent proper process may issue 
thereupon returnable in like manner. All such process may be UHSf~I\ 
~ time be{2re the. retuID., day talJ. have passzl. [See tit. SHERIFFS, o. 
:j &pt.1664, act.4, 2 Stat. arg. 210; alt. from Feb. 7, 1814, c. 18. 
33. ~ 7L Process to bring the representative or representatives of any de­
ceased party into court, may be awarded at the rules in like manner as in open
court. Ibid. [See tit. Jumc1A.RY, County Courts, No. 49.] 
34. § 72. The plaintiff shall file his declaration in the clerk's office on the
rule day at which the writ or other process shall be returned executed ; or, the
defendant having entered his appearance,(2) may give a rule for the plaintiff
to declare; which if he fails or neglects to do, at the succeeding rule day,(") 
. or shall at any time fail to prosecute his suit,(6) he shall be nonsuited, and pay 
tG tlae defendant or teRant, besides bis costs, five dollars. See Oct. 1680-1, 
ad 26, 2 St.at. Larg. ~; alt. frora 179-2, c. 66, R. C.
35. ~ 73. When the plaintiff' hath filed his declaration,(10) he may give a 
rule to plead with the clerk ; and if the defendant( 4) shall not plead accord­
ingly, at the expiration of such rule,( x) the plaintiff' may enter judgment for
his debt or damages and costs, and have a writ of enquiry awarded where one
shall be necessary.(y) Ibid. . 
36. ~ 74. All rules to declare, plead, reply, rejoin, or for other proceedings,
shall be given regularly from month to month, shall be entered in a book to be
kept for that purpose, and shall expire on the succeeding rule day. 1792, c. 
66,R. C. .
37. '§ 75. No discontinuance of any cause shall take place for failure to 
take any rule therein, during any vacancy in the office of the clerk of the
court in which such cause may be depending; but all causes on the rule docket
shall stand continued until the rule day after the vacancy shall be filled ; and
all process issued before, but not returnable tilJ after such ncancy happened,
shall be returnable to the same rule day. Dec. 27, 1814, c. 31. 
38. § 76. Before every term of the general court, or a saperior court of
law, and before every quarterly term of a county or corporation court, the
clerk shall enter, w a partieular docket, separate and distinct from the rule
docket, and, in the county court, separate and distinct from the chancery
docket, al] those causes, and those only, in which there is an issue to be tried,
or an enquiry of damages to be made, or an office judgment which may be
set aside, or a special verdict, case agreed, demurrer, or other matter of Jaw,
or other question before the court, is to be argued or decided. He shall docket
the causes in the order in which they are put to issue, or writs of enquiry are 
awarded, or office judgments rendered in them; and no cause shall be removed
from its place on the docket, unless wh(;Il, being called for trial, it shall be
continued a.t the plaintiff's motion, in which case it shall be put at the end of
the docket, unless the defendant consent that it shall retain its place. The
clerk, under the control of the court, shall apportion the causes on the docket,
to so many days, and in such numbers to each day, as may be deemed most
expedient ; and he shall issue subpamas for witnesses to attend on the day to 
wnich the causes stand for trial. Mar. 1661-2, act 20, 2 &at. Larg. 60;
1792, c, 66, R. C.; and Jan. 1805, c. 61, td. 1808. 
39. § 77. Every judgment entered in the office against any defendant, or
against any defendant and bail, or against any defendant and sheriff, shall be
set aside,( z) if the defendant, at the succeeding term of the general court, or
a superior court of Jaw, or at the succeeding(aa) quarterly term of a county
or corporation court, shall be allowed to appear without bail,(bb) put in good 
bail, being ruled 80 to do, or surrender himself in eustody ,( 1) and shall plead 
to issue(cc) immediately: Provided- /&QflJever, That no such office judgment 
11hall be aet aside at any time, after a writ of enquiry awarded thereupon shall
have been executed, unless good cause be shewn tberefor.(z3) The court
shall have control over all other proceedings in the office, during the preceding
vacation, may correct any mistakes or errors which may have happened therein,
and may, for good cause shewn, set aside any of the said rules or proceedings,
and make such order concerning the same, as may be just and right.(y3) They
may also, for good cause shewn,(dd) reinstate any cause discontinued during
eueh preceding vacation. 1792, c. 66, 67, R. 0. 
40. § 78. Any new issue made up, on setting aside an office judgment, un­
lese good cause be shewn for a continuance, may be tried at the same term.(u) 
And any writ of enquiry awarded at the rules, may be executed at the next
succeeding court, and final judgment be rendered thereupon, unless good
cause be shewn for a continuance. Feb. 7, 1814, c. 18. [By act of March
19, 1839, writs of enquiry are dispensed with. The provision is, That in
all actions now pending or hereafter to be brought, either in the circuit supe­
rior courts of law and chancery, or the county or corporation courts of this
commonwealth, founded upon judgments, bonds, notes, bills, checks, drafts,
covenants or agreements for the payment of a sum certain in money, or on
accounts acknowledged in writing, signed by the party chargeable therewith,
and in which actions writs of enquiry are to be executed ; if neither party
~!!al] require a jury, it shall be lawful for such courts, in lieu oi a "jury, To as­ 
sess Uie damages, and ascertain the time from which interest on the principal
sum shall run, and render final judgment, in the same manner as if such da­
mages and such time had been ascertained by the verdict of a jury. Acts 1839, 
c. 66, § 3, p. 43.] . 
41. § 79. All judgments by default, obtained in the office, for wa»t of ap­
pearance, or bail or plea, in which no writ of enquiry shall be awarded, and
which shall not be set aside on some day of the next succeeding term as afore­
said ; and all non-suits and dismissions, obtained in the office, and not so set
aside, shall be considered as final judgments of the last day(.ffJ of the term,
and executions may issue thereupon accordingly. Every such execution in
favour of the plaintiff in any action of debt, founded upon any bond, bill, pro­
missory note, or other writing, for the payment of money(gg) or tobacco, shall 
be issued, as well for intereat(U) until paid, upon the principal svm due, from 
the time when such bond, bill, promissory note, or other writing was payable, 
as for such principal sum and costs. 1792, c. 66, R. C.; Jan. 29--April l,
1805, e, 57, ttl. 1808. 
42. § 80. In all actions founded on contracts, where judgment shall be ren­
dered in court, if interest be allowed, such interest shall be upon the principal
sum due, and shall continue until such principal sum be paid. And in all ac­ 
tions, founded on contracts,( 1) and tried before a jury, the jury shall ascer­ 
tain the principal sum due, and fix the period. at which interest shall commence, 
if interest be allowed by them ; and judgment shall be rendered accordingly,
carrying on the interest till the judgment shall be satisfied.(ii) Jan. 29-Apr. 
1, 1805, c. 57, ed. 1808.
43. § 81. Actions of account may be brought and maintained, against the 
executors or administrators of every guardian, bailiff and receiver, and also by
one joint tenant, or tenant in common, his .executors or administrators, against
the other as bailiff, for receiving more than comes to his just share or propor­
tion, and against the executors or administrators of such joint tenant or tenant 
in common. 4 Ann. c. 16; 17 48; 1792, c, 76, R. C.
44. ~ 8-l. In all actions on any bond, or on any penal sum for the non-per­ 
formance of covenants or agreements, in any indenture, deed or writing con­
tained, the plaintiff or plaintiffs may(jj) assign as many breaches as he or they 
may think fi\;(kk) and the jury, upon trial of such action or actions, shall and 
may aueN damages for such of the breaches as the plaintiff" shall prove ; and,
on such verdict, the like judgment shall be entered, as heretofore bas been
usually done, in such actions.(ll) And, where judgment on a demurrer, or by
confession, or nillil dicit, shall be given for the plaintiff, he may(mm) assign as
many breaches of the covenants or agreements as- he may think fit: upon which,
a jury shall be summoned, to enquire of the truth of every one of those breaches,
and to ll88eSS the damages the plaintiff" shall have sustained thereby ; and exe­
cution shall issue for so much ; and the judgment shall. remain as a security to
the plaintiff, his executors and administrators, for any other breaches which
may afterwards happen; and he or they may have a seire facias(nn) against
the defendant, his executors or administrators, and assign any other breach; 
and, thereupon, damages shall be assessed, and execution issued as aforesaid. 
Jlay 173'J, c. 13, 4 &at. Larg. 359; 1748, 6 Stat. Larg. 509; 1792, c, 76,
R. 0. ; 8 and 9 Will. 3, c. 11. 
45. § 83. In all actions which shall be brought upon any bond or bonds for
the payment of money or tobacco, wherein the plaintiff shall recover, judg­
ment shall be entered for the penalty of such bond, to be discharged by the
payment of the principal and the interest due thereon,( oo) and the costs of suit, 
and execution shall iasue aecordingly ; or, if, before judgment, the defendant
shall bring into oourt(pp) the principal and interest due upon such bond, he
shall be di11eh1rged, alfd in that case judgment shall be entered for the costs 
only. 5 Stat. Larg. 511 ; Ibid. 4 and 5 A,an. c. 16. 
46. § 84.. In any action of debt on a single or penal bill, or in debt or seir« 
f aeia, upon a judgment, or in debt upon a bond, if, before action brought, the
defendant hath paid the principal and interest(qq) due by the defeaaanee or 
eondition, he may plead payment in bar. Ibid. 
47. § 85. If any action be brought on a bond or other writing, filed in any 
l!Uit brought thereupon in any other court of this commonwealth, it shall be
sufficient for the plaintiff to file with his declaration a copy of such bond or
other writing, attested by the clerk of the court in which the original may be
filed ; and the defendant or defendants shall be obliged to plead thereto, in like
manner as if the original bond or writing was filed, and such eopy shall be ad­
mitted as evidence on the trial.(rr) If, however, the defendant or defendants
shall plead, that the original bond or writing is not his, her or their deed, the
clerk of the court having such original paper in his custody, shall, on being
summoned as a witness, attend with the same, on the trial of the issue, for the
inspection of the jury. Alt. from 1792, c. 66, R. C. [See Act of Feb. 15~
1828, c. 27, p. 22, Sup. R. C. c. 205, p. 265, which provides, " that every ap­ 
peal bond, injunction bond, or other bond required to be given by one party to
the other in any appeal or other action, may, on the decision of the cause in fa­
vour of the obligee in the bond, be delivered by the clerk'having custody thereof,
to the obligee or his legal representative, who shall give a receipt for the same:
and whenever a suit shall be brought upon any bond given in open court, or to
the clerk in his office, or by any public officer to the governor of this common­
wealth, a copy of such bond, attested by the clerk of the court, or of the coun­
eil, if the bond be in possession of the executive, shall be admitted as evidence,
to have the same effect as the original, unless the defendant shall plead non tst 
f actum. § 2. That when any original paper filed in a cause decided in any 
court in this state, shall be required as evidence in any other court, it shall be
lawful for the court in which the same may be filed, io cause such original pa­
per to be delivered to the party requiring it as aforesaid, and a copy thereof to
be filed in its stead; and to make any other order which may be proper in re­
spect to the original, in order to prevent the improper use thereof,"] 
48. ~ 86. In every action of indebitatus assumpsit; the plaintiff shall file,
with his declaration, an account, stating distinctly the several items of his
claim against the defendant;( ss) and, in failure thereof, he shall not be enti­
tled to prove, before the jury, any item, which is not so plainly and particu­
larly described in the declaration, as to give the ~fendant {~ l!_~~e~f the 
chara~~r ~ Rev. 1819. - 
49. ~ 88. The plaintiff" in replevin, and the de(endant in all other actiom,
may plead as many sever'11 matters, whether of law or of fact,(tt) u he •hall
think necessary for his defence. 1792, c. 66, R. C. ; 4 and 5 Ann. c. 16. 
60. § 89. In controversies affecting lands, tenements or hereditaments, poe­
sessioa of part shall not be construed as possession of the whole, when an ac­
tual adverse po88e88ioa can be pro•ect( uu) 1792, c, 76, R. C. 
61. ~ 91. Interpreters may be sworn truly to interpret, when neceseary. 
1789, c. 28, 13 &at. Larg. 37, 1LDd Ibid. 
52. § 93. Papers read in evidence, though not under seal,("11) may be car­
ried from the bar by the jury. Dee. 4, 1789, e. 28, 13 Stat. Larg. 37; Ibid. 
63. ~ 94. Any instrument, to which the person making the same shall affix
a scroll, by way of seal,(rcu,) shall be adjudged and holden to be of the same
force and obligation, as if it were actually sealed. Ibid. 
M. ~ 95. Every person desirous( u) of suifering a non-suit on trial, shalJ be
barred therefrom, unless he do so before the jury retire from the bar. Ibid. 
55. § 96 . .li.ew trials may hereafter be granted, as well '!here the dama~
~~_ifest_!r !~_s_~l,(yy) as where they ~e exc~- .Rea~ISi9. --- 
56. '§ 97. Not more than two(z2:) new trials shall be granted to the same
party, in the same cause. 1789, 13 Stat. Larg. ::17; 1792, c. 76, R. C. 
67. § 98. All declarations, pleas, evidences and other papers, relating to any
cause in court, shall be carefully preserved by the clerk, and they shall be all
filed together in the office. Oct. 1660-61, act 26, 2 Stat. Larg. 27; Mar.
1661-2, act 23, n. 71; Ibid. 
58. § 99. When any cause shall be finally determined, and an appeal, writ
of error, or supersedeas shall be granted to the judgment, and in all causes
where the title or bounds of land shall be determined, whether an appeal, writ
of error, or supersedeas, be granted from the judgment or not, it shall be the
duty of the clerk to enter in books to be kept for that purpose, all the plead­
ings and papers filed as evi4ence therein, and the judgment thereupon, so u
to make a complete record thereof: and those wherein the title or bounds of
land is determined, shall be entered in a separate book. From 1792, c, 66, 67,
R. C.; Jan. 1805, c. 61, ed. 1808. 
59. § 111. AH things herein contained, ' not restricted by their nature, or
by express provision to particular courts,' shall be the rules of decision and
proceeding in all courts whatsoever within this commonwealth. 
1. § 32. The parol shall not demur, in any suit now dependiag, or hereafter
to be brought in any court of law or equity, by reason of the infancy of the
plaintiffs or defendants, or of any or either of them, but the court may never­
theless proceed to judgment or final decree, in the same. Jan. 25, 1798, c. 
240, R. C.
2. § 33. No plea in abatement( 1) shall be admitted or received, unless the 
party( a) offering the same, shall prove the truth thereof, by oath or affirma­
tion,( m) as the case may require; and no plea of non est factu111, offered by 
" 
any person charged as obligor, cove!1antor, or grantor of a deed, shall be ad­
mitted or received, unless the truth thereof shall in like manner be proved, by
oath or affirmation ;( b) and where any person, other than the obligor, covenan­
tor or grantor, shall be the defendant, such defendant shall prove, by oath or
affirmation, that he or she verily believes that the deed, on which the action is
founded, is not the deed of the person charged as obligor, covenantor or gran­ 
tor. Dec. 1788, e. 67, § 39, 12 Stat. Larg. 745; 1792, c. 66, R. C. [By
act of Feb. 5, 1828, c. 31, the following is provided : " In all actions which
may hereafter be brought upon any promissory note, bill of exchange, draft or
other writing, or on any endorsement, assignment or acceptance thereof, and 
in wllic11 the declaration shall allege or charge that the defendant or any other
person made, assigned, endorsed, or accepted the same, and subscribed his or
her name thereto, every such note, bill, draft, assignment, endorsement, ac­
ceptance or other writing, with the name or signature thereto subscribed, upon
being offered in evidence, shall be deemed and taken to be genuine, and the
name or signature to hue been subscribed or made by the person charged
therewith, without any proof of the handwriting; unless the defendant or some
other person shall make affidavit, to be filed with the plea, that the said note,
bill, endorsement, assignment, acceptance or other writing, was not made by
the person charged therewith ; or in case it be the name or signature of any
person other than the affiant, then that he had good cause to believe and does
believe, that the same was not so made or signed." Act Feb. 5, 1828, c. 31, 
&s. Acts 1827-8, p. 24.] 
3. § 34. Process in all real actians, other than writs of right, shall be ac­
cording to the course of the common law, except that the returns shall be ac­
cording to the laws of this commonwealth ; but all essoins, views and vouch­ 
ers shall be and they are hereby taken away ; and, after one imparlance, unless
the tenant shall plead non-tenure, joint tenancy or several tenancy, in abate­
ment,( n) and then, after such plea shall be overruled, he shall put himself on 
the grand assize, and the mise shall be joined upon the mere right, ' or the ge­
neral issue be joined, as the case may require,' and be tried at the next court, by
twelve jurors, to be summoned, tried and sworn, as in all other actions : And,
to remove all delays and groundless pretences, in saving the default of the te­
nant, no excuse shall be admitted but non-summons ; and, such excuse being
allowed, he may imparle, and, at the next court, shall either plead in abate­
ment, or put himself upon the grand assize, or upon the country, as aforesaid. 
Oct. 1748, c. 1, 5 Stat. Larg. 416; e. 76, R. C. 
4. § 35. In all actions, real or mixed, which shnll hereafter be brought,
for the recovery of any lands or tenements, within this commonwealth, if
the tenant shall plead, that he holdeth the tenements in demand, jointly with
his wife, or any other person, not named in the writ, and shew forth a deed
testifying the same, and demand judgment of the writ, and thereupon issue
be joined, and it be found against the truth of t~ plea, by him in manner
aforesaid pleaded, the plaintiff shall recover his seisin of the tenements in
demand, and double damages, against the party by whont such plea shall
have been pleaded ; but, if it be found that the matter aforesaid was truly
and lawfully alleged, by such defendant in his plea, the writ shall be abated : 
Prooided a/wags, That no such plea shall be admitted or received in any
case, unless the party offering the same shall prove the truth thereof by oath 
or affirmation, as the case may require. 34 Ed. l st. l ; Dec. 19, 1792, c.
123, R. C. 
5. ~ 36. By the exception of non-tenure of parcel of any lands or tenements,
for which any action or suit shall be brought, the writ shall not be abated, but
for the quantity of the non-tenure which shall be alleged. 25 Ed. 3 st. L; 
Dec. 19, 1792, c, 125, R. C. . 
6. ~ 37. Where any action, real or mixed, is now or shall be depending, in
any court of this commonwealth, for the recovery of any lands or tenements,
and any party thereto shall die, before verdict rendered,( c) such action shall 
not abate, if the same be _ _.!llaintainable by or against the heir or devisee of the
deceased party. BuTilie plaintiff, or, if he be dead, his heir or devisee, may
have a scire f acias against the defendant, or, if he be dead, against his heir or
devisee, to shew cause generally why such action shall not be proceeded in to
a final judgment. Upon the return of such scire facias executed, if no good
cause be shewn to the contrary, such heir or devisee shall be made a party to
the action, and the cause shall proceed in the same manner as if such heir
or devisee had been originally a party thereto: Provided, That such heir or
devisee shall have libei:_ty to plead de novo; or to amend the pleadings in such
manner as the nature of the case may require; and that he shall be entitled
to a continuance of the cause, for one term after such scire facias returned
executed. Rev. 1819. 
7. ~ 38. Where 'any personal' action or suit in equity, is now or shall be 
depending in any court of this commonwealth, and either of the parties shall
die, before ' verdict rendered or final' decree be had, such action or suit shall
not abate, if the same ~riginally maintainable by or against an executor
or administrator, ( 4) but the plaintiff, or, if he be dead, his executor or adminis­
trator, or the sheriff, serjeant, 'or other curator of the decedent's estate,' shall
and may have a scire f acias against the defendant, or, if he be dead, against
his executor or administrator, or against the sheriff, serjeant, ' or other cura­
tor of bis estate,' to shew cause generally why such action or suit shall not
be proceeded in to a final judgment or decree. And if such executor, admi­
nistrator, sheriff, serjeant ' or curator,' upon the return of a scire f acias exe­
cuted, shall neglect or refuse to enter his or her appearance to the suit, the
court may proceed to final judgment or decree therein, in the same manner as 
if such executor, administrator, sheriff, serjeant 'or curator,' had entered his
or her appearay.ce. And if such executor, administrator, sheriff, serjeant ' or
curator,' shall appear to the suit upon the return of such scire f 'acias execu­
ted, or if, without a scire f acias, he or she shall, voluntarily, enter himself or
herself, defendant to such suit, then, ·and in either case, such executor, admi­
nistrator, sheriff, serjeant 'or curator,' shall have liberty to plead de nono to
the plaintiff's action, every such plea or pleas, as an executor or administrator
may lawfully plead, or as the deceased party might or could have pleaded, if
he or she had lived ;(d) and if such executor, administrator, sheriff, serjeant 
c or curator,' should not desire to plead de nooo, or, if no issue shall have been 
joined or pleadings entered, before the death of his or her testator or intes­
tate, or if any interlocutory judgment or decree shall have been entered in the
lifetime of the deceased party, and the executor, administrator, sheriff, ser­
jeant 'or curator,' shall refuse to plead, or shall not desire to set aside the
interlocutory judgment or decree, the FOUrt shall proceed to final judgment or
decree, for or against the executor, administrator, sheriff, serjeant ' or cura­
tor,' in the same manner, as if the original writ had been issued against him
or her, as executor, administrator, sheriff, serjeant ' or curator,' and the cause
shall remain in its place on the issue or rule docket, as the case may be. But
the defendant being an executor, administrator, sheriff, serjeant ' or curator,'
shall be entitled to a continuance until the next term after that to which a
scire facias shall have been returned executed, or at which he or she shall
have voluntarily entered himself or herself a defendant. From acts of Jan.
7 a,ul 13, 1807, c. 94, 101, ed; .. J808. And, if there be two or more plaintiffs
or defendants, and one or more of them should die, if the cause of action
should survive to the surviving plaintiff or plaintiffs, or against the surviving
defendant or defendants, the writ or action shall proceed at the suit of the
surviving plaintiff or plaintiffs, against the surviving defendant or defendants.(3)
And in all actions, real, personal and · ~ixed, if either party shouJd die, be­ 
tween verdict and judgment, such death .shall not be pleaded in abatement,
but judgment shall be entered as if both parties were living. Oct. 1748, c.
8, 5 Stat. Larg. 510; 1792, c, 76. R. C. and 8 and 9 Will. 3, c. 11. In
any such action, real, personal.or mixed, and in any such suit in equity, where
the demandant or plaintiff shall die before verdict rendered, or final decree as
aforesaid, if the heir or devisee, executor, administrator, or other representa­
tive of the deceased party, shall not appear and pray for such scire facias, at 
or before the second term of the court, next after that at which the death of
such party shall have been suggested on the record, such action or suit shall 
be discontinued, unless good cause be shewn to the contrary. Rn. 1819.(1) 
8. § 20. In all actions of assault and battery, and slander, commenced and
prosecuted in any superior court of law, if the jury find under the sum of six-
teen dollars and _sjx!J:Si.x cents, and in the like actions commenced and irose:-­
cuieain"iriycouniy or corporation court, if the jury find under six _dQ!lars 
and sixt.tBix cents, the plaintiff, in either case, shall ~~t-~~~~~ ~ycosts.(2) 
ou: 1 °1 , c, 8, 1i Stat. Larg. 509; 1792, 76, R. C. ·
9. § 21. I_n. all .actions of J.r.espa88 'qua.re claus_um fregit,'(where the court, 
before whom ihe trial shall be, s]lall not be satisfied, and .enter upon the 're­
j,.o.rd, that the fr~~old, title, or interest 'of the land mentioned in the plain­
tiff's declaration, was or might have been in question, or that the trespass was
wilful or malicious ; and i!i all other actions of trespass, where the court be­ 
fore whom the trial shall be~- shall not be satisfied, and enter upon the record,
that the trespass was wilful or malicious; 'and in all ~gtiQ~s upon the case, 
actions of covenant, and actions of debt for a penalty intended to secure the
performance of a covenant or condition, where the court before whom the
trial shall be, shall not be satisfied, and enter upon the record, that the action 
~as n~ither frivolous .no~ vexatious,\ ~_j_ur..Y find under six dollars .~nd
sixty-six cents, the Pl~nt1ff shall ne'll recover !Il~r~ ~osts than the sum so
found, and, if more costs are awarded, the judgment shafl be void, and shall
be amended upon a motion at any time, by the court who awarded the same;
and the party injured, shall be redressed, as to such costs so wrongfully
awarded, in case the same be levied upon him. And, where several persons
shall be made defendants, in any action of trespass, assault, false imprison­
ment, or ejectment, and, upon the trial thereof, any one or more of them shall
be acquitted by verdict; every defendant so acquitted, shall have and recover
his costs of suit, in like manner as if the verdict had been given against the
plaintiff or plaintiffs, and acquitted all the defendants ; unless the court, be­
fore whom such cause shall be tried, shall be satisfied, that there was reasona- 
' 
ble cause for making such person or persons defendant or defendants to such
action, and shall order it otherwise. lbid. and see 21 Jae. 1, c, 16; 22 and 
23 Car. 2, c. 9; 43 Eliz. c, 6; 8 and 9 Will. 3, c, 11.
IO. § 22. In all actions of trespass quare clausum fregit, wherein the de­ 
fendant or defendants shall disclaim in his or their plea, to make any title or
claim to the land in which the trespass is by the declaration supposed to be
done, and the trespass be by negligence, or involuntary, the defendant or de­
fendants shall be admitted to plead a disclaimer, and that the trespass was by
negligence or involuntary, and a tender or offer of sufficient amends for such
trespass before the action brought ; whereupon, or upon some of them, the
plaintiff or plaintiffs shall be enforced to join issue; and, if the said issue be
found for the defendant or defendants, or the plaintiff or plaintiffs shall be non­
suited, the plaintiff or plaintiffs shall be clearly barred from the said action or
actions, and all other suits concerning the same. See Mar. 1642-3, act 44, I
Stat. Larg. 264; March 1645-6, act 17, lb. 317; Oct. 1705, c, 35, 3 &at.
Lar~. 382; 1792, e. 76, R. C.; 21 Jae. 1, c. 16. 
CIVIL SUITS, (costs.) 
11. ~ 23. In all cases at law, except motions, where judgment shall be_ 
giYen for the defendant or appellee,( e) he shall recover his costs against the
plaintiff or appeJlant, and have execution for the same ; and, in all such cases,
where judgment shall be given for the plaintiff or appellant, if not otherwise
provided by law, he shall recover his costs against the defendant or appellee,
and have execution for the same. Oct. 1748, c. 8, 5 Stat. Larg. 509; 1792, 
c. 76, R. C.; 1783, c, 40; 1792, c. 66, R. C. [When, in any case, a prose-)·
cution shall be instituted for a breach of any of the penal laws of this com­ 
monwealth, by any individual who may be endorsed as prosecutor, such in­
dividual shall be answerable for all costs which may accrue in consequence of
such prosecution, in like manner that parties to civil actions are now answera­
ble: Provided always, That the prosecutor shall, in no case, be liable to pay
costs where the defendant or defendants shall have been found guilty.• Feb.
17, 1823, c, 9, § 6. See INDICTMENT, No. 6.] 
12. § 24. On all motions, the court may give or refuse costs, at their discre­
tion, unless where it is otherwise provided by law. Oct. 1748, c. 8, 5 Stat. 
Larg. 509; 1792, c. 76, R. C. ; 1783, c, 40; 1792, c, 66, R. C. 
13. § 25. In any cause, whether at law or in equity, whether appellate or ori­
ginal, when the judgment or decree shall be rendered 'against an executor or
administrator, or other person having charge of the estate of a testator or in­
testate, full costs shall be taxed against him, including an attorney's fee, in the 
same manner as costs are taxed against a person suing or sued, in his own right.
If such executor, administrator or other person, be defendant, the judgment or
decree for costs shall be levied of the goods and chattels of the testator or in­
testate, in his hands to be administered, if so much thereof be found, if not, 
then of his own proper goods and chattels. [So much of this section, as au­
thorizes a judgment or decree for costs to be levied of the proper goods and 
chattels of any executor, administrator or other person having charge of the
estate of a testator, or intestate, where such executor, administrator or other
person is a defendant, shall be and the same ig hereby repealed. Feb. 19, 1823,
c. 28, § 4.] If such executor, administrator or other person be plaintiff', then
the judgment or decree for costs shall be rendered, to be levied only of the
goods and chattels of the testator or intestate, in his hands to be administered ;
unless the court shall be of opinion, that such executor, administrator or other
person, in the prudent discharge of his official duty, ought not to have brought
the action ; and, if the court shall be of that opinion, then they shall render the
judgment or decree for costs, to be levied of the goods and chattels of the tes­ 
tator or intestate, in the hands of such executor, administrator or other per­
son to be administered, if so much thereof be found, if not, then of his own
proper goods and chattels :(f) Provided, That nothing herein contained shall
be construed to take away or abridge the discretion of a court of equity :0ver
the subject of costs.(g) Feb. 7, 1814, c. 13. See 3 and 4 Will. 4, c. 42.· 
14. § 26. When any plea in abatement shall, upon argument in 1tny court of
law, be adjudged insufficient, the plaintiff shall recover full costs to the time of
overruling the plea, a lawyer's fee only excepted; 'and when, by an interlocu­
tory judgment, any other part of the pleadings shall be adjudged insufficient, 
all costs occasioned by such insufficient pleading, shall be adjudged against
him who committed the fault.' Oct. 1748, c. 6, 5 Stat. Larg. 478; 1792, c.
61,R. C. 
15. § 27. Every new trial granted at law, shall be upon the condition of
paying the costs of the former trial,{/,) unless such new trial be granted for
the misconduct of the opposite party;( i) and in such case, the person guilty
of the misconduct, shall be adjudged to pay the costs of the former trial. Rev. 
IB~ . 
16. § 28. Every action at law, or suit in equity, commeneed or prosecuted
in the name of any person, not residing(jJ in Virginia, unless he be employed
abroad, in the service of the commonwealth, or of the United States of Ame­
iiea, abaJl be dismissed( l) if security be not given with the clerk of the court, 
in_ which the suit shall be depending, within sixty days(k) after notice shall, at 
any time during such non-residence, have been given to the demandant or
plaintiff, or his attorney,{/) by some person interested, that such security is re­
quired for payment of the costs and damages, which may be awarded to the
tenant or defendant, and also for the fees which will become due to the officers
of the court : Such non-resident, demandant or plaintiff, requiring services of
the clerk of any court, shall secure the payment of the fees for such services,
before the said clerk shall be obliged to perform them. 'In all cases, where
security for costs shall be required under the provisions of this section, and a
question shall arise as to the residence of the plaintiff or demandant, the bur­
then of proving such residence shall be upon him.' From Mar. 1658-9, act 
1. ~ 100. In all personal actions, where .the declaration shall plainly set
forth sufficient matter of substance, for the court to ·proceed upon the merits
of the cause, the suit shall not abate for want of form. See Mar. 1657-8, act 
119, l Stat. Larg. 486; 1792, c. 67, R. C.
2. § 101. Where a demurrer(a) shall be joined, in any action, the court 
shall not regard any other defect or imperfection in the writ, return, declara­
tion or pleadings, than what shall be specially alleged in the demurrer as causes
thereof, unless something so essential to the action or defence, as that judg­ 
ment, according to law, and the very right of the cause, cannot be given, be
omitted. o«. 4, 1789, c. 28, 13 &at. Larg. 37; 1792, c. 76, R. C. ; 27 eu« 
e. 6; 4 and 6 An,a. e. 16.
3. § 102. After issue joined in an ejectment, on the title only( b) no excep­ 
tion of form or substance, shall be taken to the declaration, in any court what ..
soever. 16id. 
4. § 103. No judgment, after the verdict of twelve men, shall be stayed or
reversed, for any defect or default, in the writ, original or judicial ; or for a
nriance in the writ from the declaMtion,(c} or other proceedings ;t or for any 
mispleading,f insufficient pleading,11 discontinuance, misjoining of illue,(d)
or lack of warrant of attorney; or for the appearance of either party, being
under the age of twenty-one years, by attorney, if the verdict be for him, and
not to his prejudice; or for not '11eging any deed, letters testamentary, or
commission of administration, to be brought into court; or for omission of the
words with force and arms, or against the peace; or for mistake of the chris­
tian name or surname of either party, sum of money,(e) quantity of merchan- 
dize, day, month or year, in the declaration or pleading, (the name, sun...
tity or time being right in any part of the record or proceeding,) or for . 
sion of the averment, tlais he is rtady to vtrify; or this he is ready to 11e- • ..,y 
by tie records or for not alleging as apptt,ret/, by the record; or for omitting
the averment of any matter, without proving which the jury ought not to have
given such verdict ;(f) ' or for setting forth, by way of recital, any. matter
which ought to have been set forth by averment ;'(ff) or for not alleging that
the suit or matter is within the jurisdiction of the court ;(g) 'or, for not
alleging that the property in the declaration mentioned, is the property of the
plaintitr;{l&) or for any mistake or misconception of the form of action ;(i) or 
for any other defect whatsoever, in the declaration or pleading, whether of
form or of substance, which might have been taken advantage of by a demur­
rer, and whioll shall not have helm so taken advantage of;1(3) or for any infor­
mality ia entering up the judgment by the clerk: neither shall any judgment,
entered by nil dicit, or non su• inforTTUltus, be reversed, nor a judgment after
enquiry of damages, be stayed or reversed, for any omission or fault, which
would not have beeri a good cause to stay or reverse the judgment, if there
had been a verdict.(2) Ibid. 32; Hen. 8, c. 30; 18 Eliz. e. 14; 21 Jae. r, 
c. 13; 16 and 17 Car. 2, e. 8; 4 and 5 Anx. c. 16; Dec. 4, 1789, e. 28, 13 Stat.
Larg. 36.• 
5. § 104. When there are several counts, one of which is faulty, and entire
damages are given, the verdict shall be good ; but the defendant may(j) apply
to the court to instruct the jury to disregard the faulty count. 1789, 13 Stat.
Larg. 37; 1792, c. 76, R. 0. 
6. § 105. If, in detinue, the verdict shall omit price or value, the court may,
at any time, award a writ of enquiry to ascertain the same. If, on an issue
concerning several things in one count, in detinue, no verdict 1,e found for
part of the~,(k) it shall not be error, but the plaintiff shall be barred of his title
to the things omitted. Dec. 22, 1788, 12 Stat. Larg. c. 67, ~ 67, p. 750. Ibid. 
7. § 106 • ...__A ju4iment1 on confession, shall be equal to a release of er·
rors ; ( I) but all powers of attorneyf orconfessing or suffering judgment to pass
by default, or otherwise, and all general releases of error, made or to be made,
by any person or persons whatsoever, within this commonwealth, before action
brought, shall be, and are hereby declared to be, absolutely null and void. 
Oct. 1748, c. 8, 5 Stat. Larg. 511, and Ibid. See Nm,. 1645, ad 11, 1 &al.
Larg. 804; Marek, 1661-2, act 60, 2 Stat. Larg. 87. 
8. § 107. An execution, writ or other process, appearing to be duly served
in other respects, shall be deemed good, although it be not directed to any
sheritr.(m) 1792, e, 76, R. 0. 
9. § 108. Where, in the record of any judgment(5) or decree of any supe­
rior court of law(4) or equity, there shall be any mistake, miscalculation, or
misrecital, of any sum or sums of money, tobacco, wheat, or other such thing,
or of any name or names; and there shall be, among the record of the pro­
ceedings in the suit in which such judgment or decree shall be rendered, any
verdict, bond, bill, note, or other writing of the like nature or kind, whereby
such judgment or decree may be safely amended,{n) it shall be the duty of the 
court in which such judgment shall be rendered, and of the judge thereof in
vacation, to amend such judgment or decree thereby according to the very
truth and juttice of the case : Prornded, That the opposite party, his agent,
or attorney in fact, or at law, shall have had reasonable notice of t~e applica­
tion for such amendment. And, if the transcript of such judgment or decree,
at the time of such amendment, or at any time thereafter, shall be removed to
the court of appeals, it shall be the duty of that court upon the inspection of
such amended record, (to be brought before it by certiorari, if need be,) to
affirm such judgment, if there be no other error apparent on such record. 
Re». 1819; 9, Gto. 4, c. 15.
10. § 109. Where any bond, taken by virtue of any distress for rent or 
execution, by miscalculation or mistake, shall be conditioned for the payment
of a larger sum of money, than by law ought to have been required thereby,
or where a verdict shall be rendered for more damages than the plaintiff' shall
have demanded by his suit, and judgment shall be rendered accordingly, and
the court in which such judgment shall be rendered, shall have adjourned to
another term, without release of such excess having been made,(o) it shall be
lawful for the plaintiff', at any time before the record of such judgment shall
be removed into an appellate court, at any future term of the court in which
such judgment shall be rendered, to release in open court any such excess ;
or he may in vacation release the same by deed under bis hand and seal, wit­
nessed by the clerk or deputy clerk of such court, and filed of record among
the papers of the cause; and such release, made in either of the forms afore­ 
said, shall cure any error growing out of such excess. Re». 1819.
11. § ll 0. If the record of any such judgment{p) shall be removed into an 
appellate court, before such release shall be made, it shall be competent for
the defendant in error to make such release as aforesaid in the appellate court;
and thereupon the said court, after reversing the judgment, shall proceed to
give such judgment as the court below ought to have given if the release had 
been filed therein.(q) Re», 1819. 