SEC. 1. That the distinction heretofore existing between the SEVERAL FORMS OF ACTIONS AT LAW 
AND BETWEEN ACTIONS AT LAW AND SUITS
IN EQUITY is hereby abolished, and there shall be
in this State hereafter but one form of action for the en­
forcement or protection of private rights and the redress
of private wrongs, which shall be denominated a civil
action. 

SEC. 2. This act shall not, however, apply to or in any
wise affect Chapter 146 of the Code of Virginia provid­
ing for the writ of Habeas Corpus; or to Chapter 144 
Code of Viriginia, providing for writs of Mandamus and Prohibition; or to Chapter 145 Code of Virginia
providing for the writ of Quo Warranto ; or to Chapter 
141 Code of Virginia providing for proceedings by Attachment, except so far as this act affects the form of the
action. Nor shall this act apply to or in anywise affect 
any provision of the Code of Virginia or of existing
statutes, which provide a remedy by motion, nor shall it
affect the proceeding by writ of Certiorari, nor be applicable to any proceeding before and within the jurisdiction of a Justice of the Peace, or in the 
County Courts, or in the Hustings Court of the City of
Richmond. 
SEC. 3. ALL COURTS HAVING JURISDICTION TO
TRY CIVIL ACTIONS, WHETHER THEY ARE 
ON THE COURT OR JURY DOCKET, shall hereafter, to the full extent of their respective jurisdictions, 
administer legal and equitable remedies, CONSISTENT
WITH THIS ACT, in favor of any party, provided that
wherever there is any variance between the rules of the
common law and of equity in reference to the same mat­
ter, the rules of equity shall prevail. 
SEC. 4. The process to commence a civil action shall be a 
writ commanding the officer to whom it is addressed to
summon the defendant to answer the same. It shall be
issued on the order of the plaintiff, his agent or attorney;
and shall not, after it is issued, be altered, nor any blank
therein filled up, except by the clerk. 
SEC. 5. The writ shall issue from the clerk's office of the 
court in which the suit is brought, and shall be made re-
turnable to the first day of the next or second succeeding 
term of that court, as the plaintiff, his agent or attorney
shall direct: provided, however, that no case shall be set
for hearing at any term of court, as to any party upon
whom the writ has not been duly served at least ten days
before such term, unless such party shall appear in per-
son or by attorney as if the writ had been duly served. 
If no demurrer or plea be filed, final judgment shall be
entered in every case set for hearing, except where there
is an unexecuted order for an inquiry of damages, upon
the last or fifteenth day of the term of court, whichever
shall happen first. 
SEC. 6. The first pleading on the part of the plain tiff shall be 
known as the complaint, and shall contain a statement of
the facts constituting the cause of action, and a demand for 
the relief to which he supposes himself entitled[*] AND
IN HIS SAID COMPLAINT. OR ON THE BACK
THEREOF, HE SHALL STATE WHETHER HEii~ic~: 
CLAIMS THE SAID RELIEF'FROM THE COURTsetts
OR JUDGE ALONE, OR THAT HE CLAIMS A 
TRIAL BY ]UR Y. All written instruments, except
policies of insurance, shall be declared on by setting out
a copy of such part as is relied on, or the legal effect
thereof, with proper averments to describe the cause of
action. If the whole contract is not set out. a copy, or
the original, as the court may direct, shall he filed on mo- 
tion of the adverse party. When it may be necessary,
the copy so filed shall be. part of the record, as if oyer
had been granted of a deed declared on according to the
common law. No profert or excuse therefor need be in­
serted in the complaint. If the instrument relied on is
lost or destroyed, or is not in the power of the party who
relies on it, he shall ·state the substance of it as nearly as
he can, and the reason why a copy is not given. 
SEC. 7. In any civil action the plaintiff may include in his
complaint both legal and equitable rights and causes of
action, and may demand both legal and equitable reme­ 
dies; but when several causes of action are united in the
same complaint they must be brought to recover, either 
[ 1] Upon contracts, express or implied. 
[ 2] For injuries, with or without force, to person and
property or either, including a conversion of property to 
the defendant's use, or
[3] For injuries to character, or
[ 4] Upon claims to recover or subject real property, 
with or without damages, for the withholding thereof,
and the rents and profits of the same, or 
Page
21 
~ [5] Upon claims to recover personal property 
~ specifically, with or without damages, for the
withholding thereof; or 
[6] Upon claims arising by virtue of a contract or by
operation of law, in favor of or against a party, in some
representative or fiduciary capacity; or 
[7] Any matters which, before the adoption of this act,
might have been united in the same bill in chancery, or
in the same declaration at law. 
[8] But the several causes of action so united must all
belong to one of these classes, and except WHEN THE
PROCEEDING is for the foreclosure of mortgages,
DEEDS OF TRUST or OTHER LIENS, must affect
all the parties, and not require different places of trial,
and must be separately stated; and in all cases where
several causes of action of the same class are so joined in
the same complaint, or as matter of counter claim or set­
off in the answer, if it appear to the court that they can­
not all be conveniently heard together, the court may order
separate trials of any such causes of action, or may direct
that any one or more of them be expunged from the com­ 
plaint or answer. 
SEC. 8. If the defendant desires to plead to the jurisdiction,
or in abatement OTHER WISE, or both, he shall take 
sue exception su stantia y in t e 10 owmg rorrn : 
"The defendant pleads in abatement because-[here
state all the particular exceptions to the jurisdiction and 
causes of abatement, and how the plaintiff might or~~G.
should have brought his action in order to avoid them, if
they are such as should have been avoided.] 
And therefore he prays judgment. 
BUT NO PLEA TO THE JURISDICTION, OR
OTHERWISE IN ABATEMENT,· SHALL BE
FILED AFTER THE DAY TO WHICH THE WRIT 
l IS MADE RETURNABLE, IF IT BE SO RE­
Page 
22
~ TURNED, OR AFTER A DEMURRER OR 
ANSWER IS FILED EXCEPT ON SAID RETURN
DAY, AND ALL THE OTHER RULES RELATING
TO PLEAS IN ABATEMENT, AS THEY NOW EX­
IST, SHALL CONTINUE IN FORCE. 

SEC. 9. All defences, other than those to the jurisdiction or 
in abatement, shall be made by an answer or by a de-~~ 
m urrer.

SEC. 10. All demurrers shall be in writing, and shall dis- 
tinctly specify the reasons why the pleading demurred
to is insufficient. And grounds of demurrer not so
stated shall be deemed to have been waived. 

SEC. 11. The defendant in his answer shall specially deny
such allegations of the complaint as he intends to con- 
trovert, admitting the truth of the other allegations, un-:~~t
less he intends, in good faith, to controvert all the alle- 
gahons, m w re case e may eny t em genera y, asral," 
follows :
"The defendant denies the truth of the matters con­ 
tained in the plaintiff's complaint." 
by A B, his Attorney." 
He may also in his answer state special matters of de­
fence, and shall not give in evidence any matter in avoid­
ance, or of defence, consistent with the truth of the mate­
rial allegations of the' complaint, unless in his answer he
states such matter specially. 

SEC. 12. No affidavit shall be required to any complaint ex­
cept where it prays for an injunction, mandamus, prohi- 
biition, ror the appomtment of a receiver, or to attach 
property, in which cases affidavits are required; but where
a complaint or other pleading alleges that any person 


i made, endorsed, assigned or accepted any writing, 
~ no proof of the fact alleged shall be required, unless
an affidavit be filed with the pleading putting it in issue, 
denying that such endorsement, assignment, acceptance
or other writing was made by the person charged there­
with, or by any one authorized by him, and where plain­ 
tiffs or defendants sue or are sued as partners, and their
names are set forth in the complaint or answer or other
pleading, or where plaintiffs or defendants sue or are
sued as a corporation, it shall not be necessary to prove
the fact of the partnership or incorporation unless with
the pleading which puts the matter in issue, there be an
affidavit denying such partnership or incorporation. 

SEC. 13. The plaintiff may demur and reply to the answer; 
and in such reply he may admit some and deny others of
the allegations; or by a general denial of the defendant's 
answer, where the answer is special, put the defendant
upon proof of all material facts in the answer alleged
AFFIRMATIVELY, but under such general denial. he
may not give in evidence any matter in avoidance, unless
it be specially replied. 

SEC. 14. No averment need be made in any pleadings· which 
the law does not require to be proved, but the substantive
facts necessary to constitute the cause of action must be 
stated with substantial accuracy an without unnecessary 
verbiage. 



Unnecessary repetition, prolixity, scandal, irnpertr-
nence, obscurity or uncertainty in any pleading shall be 
ground for a motion to expunge or otherwise correct such
pleading. 
Such motion shall be in writing and shall specify the
particular exceptions, and a copy thereof shall be left
with the adverse party or his counsel at least two days
before the same shall be brought to the attention of the
court. 

~ When the pleadings do not fully disclose the 
~ -grounds of the claim or defence, the court may, on
motion, order fuller or more particular statements; and
if, in the opinion of the court, the pleadings do not suffi­
ciently define the issues in dispute, it may direct the par­ 
ties to prepare other issues, and such issues shall, if the
parties differ, be settled by the court in a summary way. 


SEC. 15. All persons having interests in the subject of the
action and in obtaining the judgment or other relief de·
manded, may be joined as plaintiffs, except as otherwise 
expressly provided; AND ANY PERSON HAVINGSeeNote9.
AN INTEREST IN COMMON WITH THE PLAIN-
TIFF, AND NOT UNITING AS A PLAINTIFF,
MAY BE MADE A PARTY DEFENDANT. 

SEC. 16. When any action has been commenced in the name 
of the wrong person as plaintiff, the court may, if satis-
fied that it has been so commenced through mistake, and 
that it is necessary for the determination of the real mat-
ter in dispute so to do, allow any other person to be sub­
stituted or added as plaintiff. 

SEC. 17. Any person may be made-a defendant who has or 
claims an interest in the controversy or in any part thereof
adverse to the plaintiff, or whom it is necessary for a com- 
.plete determination or settlement of any question involved
therein, to make a party. 
Parties generally.
SEC. 18. The court may determine the controversy as between the parties erore it, w en it can o so wit out
prejudice to the rights of others; but when a complete 
determination cannot be had without the presence of
other parties, the court may order them to be brought in. 


l And when a person not a party has an interest 
~ or title which the judgment will affect, the court,
on his application, shall direct him to be made a party. 

SEC. 19. When the object of the action is to subject real es­ 
tate to the payment of liens or other debts, if there is
enough before the court to show that the real estate is so
liable and will eventually have to be sold, the court shall
order the sale thereof without first ascertaining all the
debts or settling all the controversies : provided the sale
may be so made with a due regard to the interests of all
persons concerned: and provided further, that all lien
creditors and other persons having liens on the real estate
have been first made parties to the suit and it has been
duly set for hearing as to them. 

SEC. 20. When the persons who might be made parties are 
very numerous, so t at it wou e impractica e or un- 
reasonably expensive to make them all parties, one or more
may sue or be sued, or may be authorized by the court to
defend for the benefit of all. 

SEC. 21. No action shall be defeated by the nonjoinder or
misjoinder of parties. New parties may be added and 
summoned in, and parties misjoined may be dropped by
order of the court, at any stage of the cause, as it may
deem the interests of justice to require. 

SEC. 22. When a counterclaim or s·ET-OFF raises questions 
portorcom-a ectmgt e mterestso t tr persons,t e eren antmay, 
and if required by the court, shall, cause such persons to
be summoned in as parties to said cause. 

SEC. 23. No change in parties, made by order of court, shall 
impair any previous attachment of the estate or body of
any person remaining a defendant in the action, nor im- 
pair bonds or recognizances of any person remaining a
party, either as against himself or his sureties, nor impair
receipts to the officer for property attached; and when
parties are changed, the Court may order new bonds, if
such bonds are deemed necessary. Orders of court con­
cerning changes in parties may be upon terms as to costs
or otherwise, at the discretion of the court. 

SEC. 24. Sections 3378 and 3379 of the Code of Virginia are 
hereby amended and re-enacted so as to read as follows
Before any term of a Circuit or Corporation Court the 
clerk of each of said courts shall make out a docket of the
pending cases, as follows, to-wit : 
[I] Cases of the Commonwealth. 
[ 2] Motions and actions in the order in which notices
of the motions were filed, or in which the processes were
served, docketing together as new cases those not on the
docket at the previous term: and the clerks of the courtseeeNotelS. 
of record in the city of Richmond shall also put on the
docket with said new cases, as soon as matured, and in
the order in which they are matured, all cases matured
during the terms of said courts. 
The clerks of the said courts shall put on one docket,
to be called the "Court Docket," all cases indicated in or
upon the back of any complaint as proper to be tried by
the court or judge, and upon another docket, to be called 
the'' Jury Docket," all other civil cases. 
[3] If objection be made that a case is put upon the
wrong docket the court shall, upon an inspection of the 
record, determine upon what docket the case shall be
placed, and from such determination there shall be no ap­
peal, but after a case has been tried and judgment ren­
dered therein the court shall permit the complaint to be 
amended so that the judgment may be enforced 
against the real estate of the judgment debtor.
[ 4] Every action involving the· validity of a will, or 
for the recovery of specific real or personal property, with
or without damages, or for money claimed as due upon
contract or as damages for breach of any contract, or for 
tinjuries to persons or property, or for any other civil cause
of action for which the right of trial by jury exists at the
time of the passage of this act, shall be tried as now pro­
vided by law, by a jury, provided either party demand
such trial. 
Every other civil action or issue shall be tried by the·
court, as cases in chancery are now tried, except that
wherever any party is now entitled to an issue out of
chancery, to be tried by a jury, he shall have the same 
right under this act. 
[5] The rules of evidence and of the examination of
witnesses and of the production of proof shall be as they
now exist, but in any case on the "Court Docket'! the
judge or court may hear the evidence ore tenus, and in
such cases, on appeal, the evidence or the facts shall be
certified as now provided by law in actions at law, or upon
the trial of motions. 
[6] The judge or court shall, of his own motion, or on
motion of either party, refer any civil action either to a
special referee, wherever under the rules of practice now
in force, a reference to a commissioner in chancery would
be proper, or wherever the judge or court deems such a
reference proper to the ends of justice. Upon such a re­
ference the examination of witnesses before the referee,
when so demanded by any party in interest shall be in
writing by question and answer, and the deposition if re­
quired shall be signed by the witness. And upon like
demand, all or so much thereof as is required of the evi­
dence so taken before the referee, shall be returned by
the referee to the court with his report. 

SEC. 25. The judges of the Supreme Court of Appeals shall
sessions of the court, or other 
meeting called for that purpose to make all such orders
and rules AND TO PRESCRIBE SUCH FORMS as
shall be necessary and proper to give full effect to the
provisions of this act ; and said judges on or before the 
day of 189 , shall prepare orders, rules
and FORMS as above authorized, which they shall trans­
mit to the superintendent of public printing, who shall
cause the same forthwith to be printed and distributed
to THE JUDGES OF THE COURTS OF RECORD
OF THIS STATE, and sold at cost to all licensed at·
torneys practicing in_ this State. 

SEC. 26. This act shall be liberally construed, and all acts 
and parts of acts, and all provisions of the Code of Vir­
ginia inconsistent with this act, are hereby repealed, but 
all of said provisions and acts and all existing rules of
practice not inconsistent with this act shall remain in
full force. 

SEC. 27. This act shall take effect on the day of 
ffi
. 
189 , but it shall not a ect any action or suit pend mg
on the day -of 189 