dollars, unless the action involves the legality of a tax, im­
municipal fine, or the validity of a statute. The 
court shall also have power to issue writs of mandamus, review,
habeas corpus, certiorari, and all other writs necessary and 
complete exercise of its appellate and revisory jurisdiction.
judges shall have power to issue writs of kabeas corpus to any 
state, upon petition by or on behalf of any person held in ac­
writs returnable before himself or be­ 
supreme court, or before any superior court of the state, or any
thereof.-Constitution, Art. 4. § 4. Laws of 1889-90, p. 322, § 6. 
A court of record-Its powers. The supreme court shall
shall be vested with all power and authority 
execution all its judgments, decrees, and
determinations in all mattf"I). within its jurisdiction, according to the 
principles of the:~omlnon law, and the constitution and laws of
state.-Constitution,•.-Arf.: 4, § 4. Laws of 1889-90, p. 323, § 10. 
. . . 
SupreJQ.e ~bnrt always open-Its regular sessions. The
shall a-1.ttays be open for the transaction of business, except 
non-judicial.&fiys. It shall hold regular sessions for the hearing of 
_!~4t. ·or government, commencing on the second Mondays of
October of each year, and special sessions at the same 
sttc)t" "dther times as may be prescribed by the justices thereof.
which to bold the court, and for the accommodation of 
ojlit;e5~·ihereof, are not provided by the state, together with attendants,
fuel, lights, record books, and stationery, suitable and sufficient 
"transaction of business, the court, or any three justices thereof,
the clerk of the supreme court to provide the same; and the 
thereof, certified by any three justices to be correct, shall be paid
treasury, out of any funds therein not otherwise appropri­ 
moneys shall be subject to the order of the clerk of the su­
and accounted 
annual settlements with the state auditor.-Constitutum,
Laws of 1889-90, p. 322, § 4. 
Adjournments. Adjournments from day to day, or from
be- construed as recesses in the sessions, and shall not 
court from sitting at any time.-Laws of 1889-90, p. 323, § 7. 
Quorum-Decisions to be in writing. It shall require a
the justices of the supreme court to form a quorum and pro­ 
decision. In the determination of causes, all decisions of the
be in writing, and the grounds of the decision shall be stated. 
Art. 4, § 2. Laws of 1889-90, p. 322, § 5. 
Rules of practice and forms. The supreme court may, from
institute such rules of practice and prescribe such forms of
used, and for the keeping of the dockets, records, and pro­ 
the regulation of the said court, as shall be deemed most con­
due administration of justice, except as otherwise provided 
of p. 
of the court, and made returnable according to law, or such rule or orders
as may be prescribed by the court.-Constitutian, Art. 4, § 27. Laws of 
1889-90, p. 323, § I I. 
§ 8. [8.] Seal of Supreme Court. The seal of the supreme court
shall be the vignette of General George Washington, with the words 
'' Seal of the Supreme Court, State of Washington," surrounding the
vignette.-Laws of 1889-90, p. 324, § 17. 
§ 9. [9.] Judgments shall be final. The judgments and decrees of
the supreme court shall be final and cortclusive upon all the parties prop­
erly before the court.-Laws of 1889-90, p. 323, § 8. 
~ 10. Original Jurisdiction. 
e r t, Transfer of Probate Courts. 
e n. Appellate Jurisdiction. 
e 13. Are Courts of Record-Always Open­
Sessions. 
Adjournments.
Judges may sit in any County.
Governor may direct judge where to sit 
on request of other judges.
Judge may sit in ~nycounty at the re­ 
quest of other JUdl!les. 
CHAPTER II. 
SUPERIOR COURTS. 
i 18. 
i 19. 
e 20. 
e 2,. 
P. :n. 
e 23. 
Several sessions in one county at same
time. 
Extra judges-How Paid.
Process extends throughout the state.
Rules of practice-Judges to establish.
Seal of Superior Court.
Decisions must be given within ninety 
days.
Judges pro tempore--Powcrs-Oath. 
§ 10. [10]. Original jurisdiction. The superior court shall have
original jurisdiction in all cases in equity, and in all cases at law which
involve the title or possession of real property, or the legality of any tax,
impost, assessment, toll, or municipal fine, and in all other cases in which
the demand or the value of the property in controversy amounts to one hun­
dred dollars, and in all criminal cases amounting to felony, and in all
cases of misdemeanor not otherwise provided for by law; of actions of
forcible entry and detainer; of proceedings in insolvency; of actions to
prevent or abate a nuisance; of all matters of probate, of divorce, and for
the annulhnent of marriage, and for such special cases and proceedings
as are not otherwise provided for; and shall also have original jurisdiction
in all cases and of all proceedings in which jurisdiction shall not have
been by law vested exclusively in some other court, and shall have the
power of naturalization, and to issue papers therefor. Said courts and
their judges shall have power to issue writs of mandamus, quo zoarranto,
review, certiorari, prohibition, and writs of habeas corpus, on petition by
or on behalf of any person in actual custody in their respective counties.
Injunctions and writs of prohibition and of habeas corpus may be issued
on legal holidays and non-judicial days.-Constitution, Art. 4, § 6. 
Laws of 1889-90, p. 342, § 5·
Stewart v. Lohr, 25 P. 45i, 1 W. 341. State v. Hunter, 27 P. 1077, 3 W. 92. 
§ 11. (11.] Transfer of probate courts. On the organization of the
superior courts in the respective counties, the books, records, papers, 
and proceedings of the probate court in each county, and all causes and 
matters of administration pending therein, shall, upon the expiration of
the term of office of the probate judges, on the second Monday in Janu­
ary, 1891, pass into the jurisdiction and possession of the superior court
of the same county or district, and the said court shall proceed to final
judgment or decree, order, or other determination in the several matters
and causes, as· the territorial probate court might have done. And until
the expiration of the term of office of the probate judges, such probate
judges shall perform the duties now imposed upon them by the laws of
the territory. The superior courts shall have appellate and revisory
jurisdiction over the decisions of the probate courts, as now provided by
law, until such latter courts expire by limitation.-Laws of 1889-901 p. 
345, § 18. 
§ 12. [12.] Apellate jurisdiction. The superior courts shall have
such appellate jurisdiction in cases arising in justice's and other inferior
courts in their respective counties as may be prescribed by law.-Consti­ 
tution, Art. 4 § 6. Laws of 1889-90, p. 343, § 6. 
§ 13. [13.] Are courts of record-Always open-Sessions. The
superior courts are courts of record, and shall be always open, except on
non-judicial days. They shall hold their sessions at the county seats of 
the several counties, respectively. They shall hold regular and special
sessions in the several counties of this state at such times as pay be pre­ 
scribed by the judge or judges thereof.-Constitution, Art. 4, §§ 11-2. 
Laws of 1889-90, p. 343, § 7 · 
§ 14. [ra.] Adjournments. Adjournments from day to day, or from
time to time, are to be construed as recesses in the sessions, and shall not 
prevent the court from sitting at any time.-Laws of 1889-90, p. 343, § 8. 
§ 15. [15.] Judges may sit in any county. A judge of any super­
ior court may hold the superior court in any county, at the request of the
judge or judges of the superior court thereof, and, upon the request of
the governor, it shall be his duty to do so, and in either case the judge
holding the court shall have the same power as a judge thereof.-Consti­ 
tution, Art. 4, § 7. Laws of 1889-90, p. 343, § 10. 
King Co. v. Hill, 23 P. 926, ~ W. 63. ' 
§ 16. Governor may direct judges where to sit on request of other
judges. Whenever a judge of the superior court of any county in this
state, or a majority of such judges in any county in which there is more
than one judge of said court, shall request the governor of the state to
direct a judge of the superior court of any other county to hold a session
of the superior court of any such county as is first herein above mentioned,
the governor shall thereupon request and direct a judge of the superior
court of some other county, making such selection as the governor shall
deem to be most consistent with the state of judicial business in other
counties, to. hold a session of the. superior court in the county the judge
shall have requested the governor as aforesaid. Such request and direc­
tion by the governor shall be made in writing, and shall specify the coun­
ty in which he directs the superior judge to whom the same is addressed
to hold such session of the superior court, and the period during which he
is to hold such session. Thereupon it shall be the duty of the superior
judge so requested, and he is 'hereby empowered, to hold a session of the
superior court of the county specified by the governor, at the seat of judi­
cial business thereof, during the period specified by the governor, and in 
such quarters as the county commissioners of said county may provide
for the holding of such session.-Laws of 1893, p. 67, § 1. 
§ 17. A judge may sit in any county at the request of other
judges. Whenever a like request shall be addressed by the judge or by 
a majority of the judges (if there be more than one) of the superior
court of any county, to the superior judge of any other county, he is
hereby empowered, if he deem it consistent with the state of judicial busi­
ness in the county or counties whereof he is a superior judge (and in such
case it shall be his duty to comply with such request), to hold a session
of the superior court of the county the judge or judges whereof shall
have made such request. at the seat of judicial business of such county,
in such quarters as shall be provided for such session by the board of
county commissioners and during such period as shall have been specified
in the request, or such shorter period as he may deem necessary by the
state of judicial businesss in the county or counties whereof he is a su­
perior judge.-Laws of 1893, p. 68 § 2. 
§ 18. Several iessions in one county at same time. In any county
where there shall be more than one superior judge, or in which a superior 
judge of another county may be holding a session of the superior court,
as in this act provided, there may be as many sessions of the superior
court at th4t same time as there are judges thereof, or assigned to duty
therein by the governor, or responding to a request made as provided in section 2 of this act. In such cases the business of the court shall be so
distributed and assigned by law, or, in the absence of legislation therefor,
by such rules and orders of the court as shall best promote and secure the
convenient and expeditious transaction thereof. Judgments, decrees, or­
ders and proceedings of any session of the superior court held by one or
more of the judges of said court, or by any judge of the superior court
of another county, pursuant to the provisions of this act, shall be equally
effectual as if ell the judges of such court presided at such ·session.­ 
Latos of 1893, p. 68, § 3.-1889-90, p. 341, § 2. 
State v. King Co., 30. P. 82, 4 W. 327. State v. Lichtenberg, 30 P. 659, 4 W. 553. 
§ 19. Extra judge-Bow paid. Any judge of the superior court of
any county in this state who shall· hold a session of the superior court of
any other county. in pursuance of the provisions of this act, shall be entitled to receive, from the county in which he shall hold such sessions, the
amount of his actual traveling expenses from his residence to the place
where he shall hold such sessions and on his return to his residence, and
of the actual [traveling] expenses of his sojourn at the place where he
shall hold such sessions during the continuance thereof. The county
clerk of such county shall. upon the presentation to him by such judge
of a statement of such expenses, verified by his affidavit, issue to such 
judge a certificate that he is entitled to the amount thereof, and upon pre­
sentation of such certificate to the auditor of such county he shall draw a
warrant on the general fund of such county for the amount in favor of 
such judge. Laws of 1893, p. 69, § 4. 
§ 20. [ 17.] Process extends throughout the. State. The process of
the superior courts shall extend to all parts of the state; provided, that 
all actions for the recovery of the possession of, quieting the title to, or
for the enforcement of liens upon real estate shall be commenced in the
county in which the real estate, or any part thereof, affected by such 
action or actions is situated. -Constitution, Art. 4, § 6. Laws of 1889-90,
p. 343, § 9· 
§ 21. [18.] Rules of practice-Judges to establish. The judges of
the superior courts shall, from time to time, establish uniform rules for 
the government of the superior courts.-Constitu.tion, Art. 4, § 24. Laws 
of I 889-90, p. 344, § I 3· 
§ 22 [19.] Seal of Superior Court. The seals of the superior courts
of the several counties of the state shall be, until otherwise provided by 
law, the vignette of General George Washington, with the words, "Seal
of the Superior Court of --- County, State of Washington," sur­ 
rounding the vignette.-Laws of 1889-90, p. 345, § 17. 
§ 23· [20.] Decision must be given within ninety days. Every
case submitted to a judge of the superior court for his decision shall be
decided by him within ninety days from the submission thereof; provided,
that if within said period of ninety days a rehearing shall have been
ordered, then the period within which he is to decide shall commence at
the time the cause is submitted upon such rehearing, and upon willful
failure of any such judge so to do, he shall be deemed to have forfeited 
his office.-Constitution, Art. 4, § 20. Laws of 1889-90, p. 344 § 12. 
§ 24. [21.] Judges pro tempore-Powers-Oath. A case in the
superior court of any county may be tried by a judge pro tempore, who 
must be a member of the bar, agreed upon in writing by the parties liti­
gant, or their attorneys of record, approved by the court, and sworn to
try the case; and his action in the trial of such cause shall have the
same effect as if he were a judge of such court. A judge pro tempo re
shall, before entering upon his duties in any cause, take and subscribe
the following oath or affirmation : " I do solemnly swear ( or affirm, as the
case may be) that I will support the constitution of the United States and
the constitution of the state Washington, and that I will faithfully
discharge the duties of the office of judge pro tempore in the cause where­ 
in --- is plaintiff and --- defendant, according to the best of my
ability.'' He shall receive a compensation of ten dollars for each day
eniaged in said trial, to be paid in the same manner as the salary of the 
superior judge.-Constitutzon, Art. 4, § 7. Laws of 1889-90, p. 343, § 11. 
State v. Sachs, 29, p. 446, 3 W., 6g1. 
i 2,5. Powers and jurisdiction. 
i :z6. CiTil jurisdiction specified. 
f 27. Limitations of civil jurl8diction. 
i 28. Criminal jurisdiction. 
JUSTICE'S COURTS. 
i 29. Jurisdiction for preaeTTation of peace. 
CHAPTER III. 
i 30. Territorial limits of jurisdiction. 
ij 31. Must keep office in precinct-May issue
process anywhere. 
i 32. Must not have office with attorney. 
§ 25 [22.] Powers and jurisdiction. Every justice of the peace
elected in any precinct in this state is hereby authorized to hold a court 
for the trial of all actions (in] the next section enumerated, to hear, try
and determine the same according to law ; and for that purpose, where
no special provision is otherwise made by law, such court shall be vested
with all the necessary powers which are possessed by courts of record in
this state; and all laws of a general nature shall apply to such justice's
court, as far as the same may be applicable, and not inconsistent with the
provisions of this chapter.-Code of 1881, § 1709. 
§ 26. [23.] Civil jurisdiction specified. Every justice of the peace
shall have jurisdiction and cognizance of the following civil actions and 
proceedings: 
1. Of an action arising on contract for the recovery of money only in
which the sum claimed is less than one hundred dollars. 
2. Of an action for damages for injuries to the person, or for taking or
detaining personal property, or for injuring personal property, or for an in­ 
jury to real property when no issue raised by the answer involves the plain­
tiff's title to, or possession of the same, when the amount of damages claimed
is less than one hundred dollars ; also of actions to recover the possession
of personal property, when the value of such property, as alleged in the
complaint, is less than one hundred dollars. 
3. Of an action for a penalty less than one hundred dollars.
4. Of an action upon a bond conditioned for the payment of money 
when the amount claimed is less than one hundred dollars though the
penalty of the bond exceed that sum, the judgment to be given for the
sum actually due, not exceeding the amount claimed in the complaint. 
5. Of an action on an undertaking or surety bond taken by him or his
predecessor in office when the amount claimed is less than one hundred
dollars. 
6. Of an action for damages for fraud in the sale, purchase or exchange
of personal property when the damages claimed are less than one hun­
dred dollars. 
7. To take and enter judgment on confession of a defendant when the
amount of the judgment confessed is less than one hundred dollars. 
8. To issue writs of attachment upon goods, chattels, moneys and ef­
fects when the amount is less than one hundred dollars. 
9. Of. all other actions and proceedings of which jurisdiction is spe­
cially confessed [ conferred] by statute, when the amount involved is less
than one hundred dollars and the title to, or right of possession of or to
a lien upon real property is not involved.-Laws of 1891, p. 137 § 1. 
State v. Hunter, 27, P. 1077, 3 W., 92. Nelson v. Campbell, 24, P. 539, l W., 261.
Moore v. Perrott, 251 P. go6, 2 W. 1. Burch v. Taylor, 24, P. 438, l W., 245.
Jolley v, Foltz, 34 Cal.,321. 
§ 27. (24.] Limitations of civil jurisdiction. The jurisdiction con­
ferred by the last section shall not, however, extend to the following civil
actions:- 
1. In which the title to real property shall come in question; 
2. Nor to an action for the foreclosure of a mortgage, or enforcement of
a lien on real estate; 
3. Nor to an action for false imprisonment, libel, slander, malicious
prosecution, criminal conversation, or seduction; 
4. Nor to any action against an executor or administrator as such.­ 
Code of 1881, § 1711. 
§ 28. (25.] Oriminal jurisdiction. The jurisdiction of justices of the 
peace in criminal prosecutions shall be co-extensive with their respective
counties, and they shall have concurrent jurisdiction with the district
courts in affrays, assault and battery, violation of estray laws, obstruc­
tions of highways and bridges, charging extra tolls at ferries and bridges,
neglect of roads by supervisors, public indecency, having obscene books,
pamphlets for exhibition or otherwise, forcible entry and detainer, mali­
cious trespass, and in case of petit larceny, in all misdemeanors where the
offense charged is not punishable by imprisonment, or by a fine greater
than one hundred dollars, and public nuisance; and they shall also· have
jurisdiction over all criminal cases coming under any city or town ordi­
nance, and on conviction shall have power to fine the person so offending
in any sum not exceeding one hundred dollars.-Code of 1881, § 1886. 
Laws of 1883, p. 44 I 12. Constitution Art. 4, i 10. 
§ 29. [ 26.] Juris(Uction for preservation of the peace. Justices of
the peace shall have power to cause all laws made for the preservation of 
the public peace to be kept; and in the execution of that power may re­
quire persons to give security to keep the peace, or for their good behav­ 
ior, or both, in the manner herein provided.-Code of 1881, § 1903. 
§ 30. (27.] Territorial limits of jurisdiction. The jurisdiction of all
justices of the peace shall be co-extensive with the limits of the county 
in which they are elected, and no other or greater unless otherwise ex­
pressly provided by statute.-Code of 1881, § 1706. 
§ 31. (28.] Must keep office in precinct--May issue process else­
where. Every justice of the peace shall keep his office in the precinct
for which he may be elected, and not elsewhere; but he may issue process 
in any place in his county.-Code of 1881, § 1707. 
§ 32. (29.] Must not have office with attorney. No justice of the
peace shall hold his office in the same room with a practicing attorney, 
unless such attorney shall be his law partner; and in that case, such part­
ner shall not be permitted to appear or practice as an attorney in any case
tried before such justice of the peace.-Code of 1881, § 1708. 
i 33. Creation of municipal court. 
t 34. Jurisdiction of municipal court. 
f 35. Shall be courts of record-Seal-Process. 
I 36. Procedure same as superior courts. 
i 37. Always open-Monthly sessions. 
i 38. Criminal process-How served.
~ 39. Judges to preacribe rules. 
i 40. Juror1J--How selected. 
CHAPTER IV .: 
MUNICIPAL COURTS. 
Cause to be transferred if beyond court's
juri9diction. 
Criminal process same as justice courts.
Appeals to superior courts.
Powers and duties of clerk.
Mayor to appoint police officers to attend 
court.
Jurisdiction shall notaff'cctjusticecourts.
Mayor may appoint judge fm> lnltpon. 
§ 33. Creation of municipal courts. There is hereby created in each
incorporated city in this state having a population of more than twenty 
thousand (20,000) persons, as shown by the national or state census, a
municipal court, which court shall be known· and designated as '' The 
Municipal Court of the City of---,'' for which one judge shall be
elected by the qualified electors of each of such cities, at the general
state election in the year eighteen hundred and ninety-two (1892), and
every four (4) years thereafter, and for which a clerk shall be elected or
appointed in the manner hereinafter provided.-Laws of 1891, p. 1081 
§ I. 
§ 34. Jurisdiction of municipal courts. Said municipal court shall
have original jurisdiction:- 
1. Of any and all offenses under any ordinance of their respective
cities. 
2. Of all criminal offenses under the laws of the state of Washington,
charged to have been committed within their respective cities, less than a
felony. 
3. The judges of said court shall have all the powers of a committing
magistrate as to all offences committed within their respective cities. Wher­
ever the jurisdiction hereby conferred may be exercised by other courts, un­
der the constitution and laws of this state, the jurisdiction hereby conferred
shall be deemed to be concurrent with such other courts. - Laws of 1891, 
p. 108, § 2. 
§ 35. Shall be courts of record-Seal-Process. Said courts shall
be courts of record, and shall have a seal with the name of the city
and state, and the style of the court plainly engraved thereon ; and 
all process from said court shall issue under the seal thereof, and shall run
throughout the state. Said court shall have the power to compel the
attendance of witnesses, jurors and parties by the usual process of courts
of record of this state, and within the jurisdiction hereby conferred, and
for the purpose of exercising the same said courts and the judges thereof
shall have all the powers of the superior courts and the superior judges.­ 
Laws of 1891, p. 109, § 3.
§ 36. Procedure same as superior courts. Except as otherwise 
provided by law, the practice and procedure of the municipal courts shall be,
so far as applicable, the same as that of the superior courts of this state,
and the fees of witnesses, as well as all other costs, shall be the same in
amounts, save as herein provided, and taxed in the same manner as in
superior courts. Change of venue may be taken from the municipal
court to the proper justice court, within said state, for the same causes
and in the same manner as change of venue may be taken from one
superior court to another.-Laws of 1891, p. 109, § 4. 
§ 37. Always open-Monthly sessions. Said courts shall always be
open for the transaction of business, except upon non-judicial days, but
shall be considered as holding monthly terms commencing on the first 
Tuesday in each month.-Laws of 1891, p. rn9, § 5.
§ 38. Criminal process-Bow served. All criminal process issued 
from said court shall be directed to the chief of police, marshal or other
principal police officer of the city, and shall be served by him or some po­ 
lice officer by him authorized.-Laws of 1891, p. roe, § 6. 
§ 39. Judges to prescribe rules. The judges of said courts shall
have power to prescribe such rules and regulations for the practice and
procedure of said court as by them shall be deemed proper, not inconsist­ 
ent with the laws of this state.-Laws of 1891, p. roe, ~ 7. 
§ 40. Jurors-Bow selected. The judge of said court, together with
the city clerk, shall, on the last Tuesday of each and every month, select 
and designate not more than twelve persons duly qualified as jurors of
said court to serve therein during the next succeeding term, and until
their successors are selected. They shall in writing certify and sign said
list of jurors, and immediately file the same in the office of the clerk of
said court. The clerk of the court shall thereupon immediately issue a
venire directed to the chief of police, or other principal police officer of
the city, requiring the attendance of said jurors in said court at IO o'clock 
A. 1\1. on the day of the commencement of the next succeeding term,
which venire shall be served by the person to whom directed, or by some
police officer by him authorized, not later than Saturday following. The
clerk shall, before the commencement-of the next term, write the names
of the jurors so selected upon separate slips of paper and place the same
in a box, and whenever a case is called for trial by a jury, he shall there­
upon by lot draw from said box twelve names, and the names of the jur­
ors so drawn shall be the jury for the trial of that particular case, unless
some of them be excused upon challenge, peremptory or for cause, which
shall be the same in number and for the same cause as in the superior
court, and when any of them are so excused the clerk shall draw from the
remaining names in the box a sufficient number to fill the place of those
excused; and in the event that a jury cannot for any cause be filled and
sworn from the whole number originally mentioned, then the panel may
be filled from the by-standers or the judge may order the issuing of an
open venire. If it appears to the court from any cause that a jury will
not be needed at the beginning of any term, the court may, by order, dis­
pense with the proceedings provided in this section.-Laws of 1891,
p. 109, § 8. 
§ 41. Cause to be transferred if beyond court's jurisdiction. 
Whenever, during the trial of any cause, it shall appear to the court that
the matter in controversy is beyond the power of this court to try and de­
termine, the court shall, by order, direct that the proceedings in the same,
together with the original papers, be certified and transferred to the court
having j urisdictiou to try and determine the same. -Laws of 1891 , 
p. JIO, § 9. 
§ 42. Criminal process same as justice courts. All process as 
criminal cases from said court shall be substantially the same in form in
that of justice's courts. All prosecutions for the violation of any city
ordinance shall be conducted in the name of the city, and may be upon
the complaint of any person ; and all prosecutions for the violation of the
criminal laws of the state may be instituted upon the complaint of any 
person.-Laws of 1891, p. IIO, § IO. 
§ 43. Appeals to superior court. The judgments, orders or deci-
sions of said courts may be reviewed and revised in the superior courts of
the state to the same extent and in the same manner as judgments, orders
or decisions of the justice courts, and the procedure governing appeals
from the municipal courts to the superior courts shall be the same as that
governing appeals from the justice courts to the superior court.-Laws 
of 1891, p. II I, § II, 
§ 44. Powers and duties of clerk. The clerk shall have the custody
and care of the books, papers and records of said court ; he shall be pres­
ent by himself or deputy during the session of said court, and shall have 
the power to swear all witnesses and jurors, and administer oaths and
affidavits, and take acknowledgments. He shall keep the records of
said court, and shall issue all process under his hand and the seal of said
court, and shall do and perform all things and have the same powers per­
taining to this office as the clerks of the superior courts have in their
office. He shall receive all fines, penalties and fees of every kind, and
keep a full, accurate and detailed account of the same; Pnd shall each day
pay into the city treasury all moneys received for said city during the
day previous. with a detailed account of the same, and taking the treas­
urer's receipt therefor. The said clerk as well as the judge of said
court is hereby made a conservator of the peace, and vested with the same
authority and discretion to act on receiving .complaints, and issuing war­
rants of said court in criminal cases-Laws of 1891, p. 112 § 13. 
§ 45. Mayor to appoint police officers to attend court. It shall 
be the duty of the mayor of said city to see that a sufficient number of
police officers are always in attendance upon the municipal court, and in
readiness to obey its orders; and the mayor shall have the power, in his
discretion, to appoint one [or] more persons, approved by the judge, to
act as policemen for special attendance and duty in said court, irrespective
of the general or special rules or legal regulations or enactments relative
to the qualifications of policemen, and pay said person such compensation
as the council may deem reasonable: Provided, hotoeuer, That nothing
herein contained shall affect the powers and duties of the general police 
of said city.-Law.r of 1891, p. 112, § 15. 
§ 46. Jurisdiction shall not aft'ect justice courts. No provision
in this act shall be construed as repealing, or anywise limiting or affect­ 
ing the jurisdiction of justices of the peace under the general laws of
this state.-Law.r of 1891, p. 113, § 16. 
§ 47. Mayor may appoint judge pro tempore. In case of the
temporary absence or disability to act of the municipal judge, the municipal 
court may be held by an acting municipal judge, who shall be designated
in writing by the mayor from among the practicing attorneys, qualified
electors of the city, who, before entering upon his duties as acting judge,
shall take and subscribe an oath as other judicial officers; and while so
acting he shall have all the powers of the municipal judge: Provided,
however, Such appointment shall not continue for a longer period than the
absence or disability of the municipal judge.-Law.r of 1891, p. 114, § 20. 
CHAPTER V. 
REFERJUtS AND MAGISTRATES. 
i ,48. Definition of referee-Powtt&. f 49. Definition of magistrate. 
i 50. Who are magistrates. 
§ 48. (67.] Deflnition of referee-Powers. A referee is a person ap­
pointed by the court or judicial officer, with power, - 
1. To try an issue of law or of fact in a civil action or proceeding, and
report thereon. 
2. To ascertain any other fact in a civil action or proceeding, when
necessary for the information of the court, and report the fact, or to take
and report the evidence in an action. 
3. To execute an order, judgment or decree or to exercise any other
power or perform any other duty expressly authorized by law.-Laws of" 
1891 , p. 41 , § 1. 
§ 49. [30 ]. Definition of magistrate. A magistrate is an officer hav­
ing power to issue a warrant for the arrest of a person charged with the 
commission of a crime.-Laws of 18911 p. 91, § 1. 
§ 50. (3 1] Who are magistrates. The following persons are mag-
istrates:- 
1. The justices of the supreme court; 
2. The superior judges, and justices of the peace;
3. All municipal officers authorized to exercise the.powers and perform 
the duties of a justice of the peace.~Laws of 1891, p. 91, § 2. 
INCIDENTAL POWERS OF COURTS AND JUDICIAL OFFICERS. 
~ 51. Powers of courts in conducting judicial i ,56. Powers of judicial officers.
proceedings. e 57. Judicial officers may punish tor con- 
e 52. Power to punish for contempt. tempt. 
e 53. Definition of judicial officers-Their i ,58. Powers of supreme and superior judges
powers. · in any part of state. 
ij 54. When they may act as attorneys. ~ 59. Powers of other officers in their pre-
?. 55. Powers of judge out of court. cincts. 
§ 51. [32.] Power of courts in conducting judicial proceedings. 
Every court of justice bas power :- 
1. To preserve and enforce order in its immediate presence ; 
2. To enforce order in the proceedings before it, or before a person or
body empowered to conduct a judicial investigation under its authority ; 
3. To provide for the orderly conduct of proceedings before it or its of­
ficers; 
4. To compel obedience to its judgments, decrees, orders, and process,
and to the orders of a judge out of court, in an action, suit, or proceed­
ing pending therein ; 
5. To control, in furtherance of justice, the conduct of its ministerial
officers, and of all other persons in any manner connected with a judicial
proceeding before it, in every matter appertaining thereto ; 
6. To compel the attendance of persons to testify in an action, suit, or
proceeding therein, in the cases and manner provided by this code ; 
7. To administer oaths in an action, suit, or proceeding pending there­
in, and in all other cases where it may be necessary in the exercise of its
powers or the performance of its duties.-Laws of 1891, p. 91, § 1. 
§ 52. [33.] Power to punish for contexnpt. For the effectual exer­
cise of the powers specified in the fast section, the court may punish for
contempt in the cases and the manner provided by law.-Laws of 1891, 
p. 92, § 2. 
CHAPTER VI. 
§ 53. [34.] Definition of judicial officers. A judicial officer is a
person authorized to act as a judge in a court of justice. Such officer
shall not act as such in a court of which he is a member in any of the
following cases :- 
1. In an action, suit, or proceeding to which he is a party, or in which
he is directly interested; 
2. When be was not present and sitting as a member of the court at the
hearing of a matter submitted for its decision ; 
3. When he is related to either party by consanguinity or affinity with­
in the third degree ; 
4. When he has been attorney in the action, suit, or proceeding in
question for either party. 
But this section does not apply to an application to change the place of
trial, or the regulation of the order of business in court. In the cases
specified in subdivisions 3 and 4, the disqualification may be waived by
the parties, and, except in the supreme court, shall be deemed to be
waived, unless an application for a change of the place of trial be made
as provided in this code.-Laws of 1891, p. 92, § 3. 
§ 54. [35.] When they may act as attorneys. Any judicial officer
may act as an attorney in any action, suit, or proceeding to which he is a
party or in which be is directly interested. A justice of the peace, other­ 
wise authorized by law, may act as an attorney in any court other than
the one of which he is judge, except in an action, suit, or proceeding re­
moved therefrom to another court for review ; but no judicial officer shall
act as attorney in any court, except as in this section allowed. -Laws of 
1891, p. 92, § 4·
§ 55. [36.] Power of Jtidge out of court. A judge may exercise, 
out of court, all the powers expressly conferred upon a judge as contra­
distinguished from a court, and not otherwise.-Laws of 1891, p. 92, § 5. 
§ 56. [37.] Powers of judicial officers. Every judicial officer has
power:- 
1. To preserve and enforce order in his immediate presence, and in the
proceedings before him, when he is engaged in the performance of a duty
imposed upon him by this code or other statute ; 
2. To compel obedience to his lawful orders, as provided in this code.
3. To compel the attendance of persons, to justify [testify] in a proceed­ 
ing pending before him in the cases and manner provided in this code ; 
4. To administer oaths to persons, in a proceeding pending before
him, and in all other cases where it may be necessary, in the exercise of
his powers and the performance of his duties.-Laws oJ 1891, p. 92, § 6. 
§ 57 [38.] Judicial officers may punish for contempt. For the
effectual exercise of the powers specified in the last preceeding section, a 
judicial officer may punish for contempt, in the cases and manner provid­
ed by law.-Laws of 1891, p. 93, § 7. 
§ 58. [39.] Power of supreme and superior judges in any part
of the state. The judges of the supreme and superior courts have 
power in any part of the state to take and certify, - 
1. The proof and acknowledgment of a conveyance of real property, or
any other written instrument authorized or required to be proved or ac­ 
knowledged; 
· 2. The acknowledgment of satisfaction of a judgment in any court; 
3. An affidavit or deposition to be used in any court of justice or other
tribunal of this state; 
4. To exercise any other power and perform any other duty conferred
or imposed upon them by statute.-Laws of 1891, p. 93, § .8. 
§ 59. [40.J Power of other officers in their precincts. Every other
judicial officer may, within the county, city, district or precinct in which 
he is chosen,- 
1. Exercise the powers mentioned in subdivisions 1, 2 and 3 of the last
preceding section ; 
2. Exercise any other power and perform any other duty conferred or
imposed upon them by other statute. -Laws of 1891, p. 93, § 9. 
~ 60. Superior courts shall be held at county
seats. 
~ 61. What are legal holidays. 
~ 6:1. Labor Day. 
?. 63. When courts shall act on holidays.
~ 64. Appointments for holidays shall be beard. 
~ 60 [41.J Superior courts shall be held at county seats. The
superior courts shall hold their sessions at the county seats of the several 
counties respectively.-Laws of 1891, p. 89, § I. 
§ 61 [42.J What are legal holidays. The following days are legal
holidays, namely: Sunday; the first day of January, commonly called
New Year's day ; the fourth day of July; the twenty-second day of Feb­
ruary ; the twenty-fifth day of December, commonly called Christmas
day ; and any day designated by public proclamation of the chief executive
of the state as a legal holiday, or as a day of public thanksgiving; the
day known and observed as Memorial or Decoration day ; and the day on
which a general election is held throughout the state. Laws of 1891, p. 
So, § I. 
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS RESPECTING COURTS. 
on next day. 
CHAPTER VII. 
§ 62. [43.J Labor Day. The first Monday of September of each year
is hereby declared to be a legal holiday in the State of Washington, to be 
known as Labor Day.-Laws of 1891, p. 39, § 1. 
e 65. Adjournments may be ordered from time
. to time. 
e €,6. No proceeding affected by vacancy or
want of judge. 
~ 67. Court may order sheriff to provide rooms,
etc. 
e 68. Courts may provide means to make their
powers effective. 
§ 63. [44.J When courts shall act on holidays. No court shall be 
open, nor. shall any judicial business be transacted, on a legal holiday,
except--- 
I. To give, upon their request, instructions to a jury when deliberat­
ing of their verdict ; 
2. To receive the verdict of a jury ;
3. For the exercise of the powers of a magistrate in a criminal action, 
or in a proceeding of a criminal nature ;
4. For hearing an application for writs of habeas corpus, injunction, 
prohibition, and·attachment.--Laws of 1891, p. So, § 2. 
§ 64. [45.] Appointments for holidays shall be heard on next
day. If any legal holiday happen to be a day appointed for the sitting
of a court, or to which it is adjourned, such sitting shall be deemed ap­ 
pointed for or adjourned to the next day which is not a legal holiday.­
Laws of 1891, p. 81, § 3. 
§ 65. [46.] Adjournments may be ordered from time to time. A
court or judicial officer has power to adjourn any proceeding before it or
him, from time to time, as may be necessary, unless otherwise expressly 
provided by law.-Laws of 1891, p. 93, § 10. 
§ 66. [47.] No proceedings affected by vacancy or want of judge. 
No proceeding in a court of justice, in any action, suit, or proceeding
pending therein, is affected by a vacancy in the office of any or all of the
judges, or by the failure of a session of the court.-Laws of 1891, p. 
89, § 2. 
§ 67. (48.] Oourt may order sheriff to provide rooms, etc. If the
proper authority neglects to provide any supreme or superior court with
rooms, furniture, fuel, lights, and stationery, suitable and sufficient for
the transaction of its business, and for the jury attending upon it, if there 
be one, the court may order the sheriff to do so, at the place within the
county designated by law for holding such court; and the expense in­
curred by the sheriff in carrying such order into effect, when ascertained
and ordered to be paid by the court, is a charge upon the county.-Laws 
of 1891, p. 93, § I I. 
State v. Hunter, 30 P. 1055. 4 W. 712. Barnett v. Ashmore, 31 P. 466. 4 W. 637. 
§ 68. [49.] Oourt may provide means to make their powers effect­
ive. When jurisdiction is, by the constitution of this state, or by stat­
ute, conferred on a court or judicial officer, all the means to carry it into 
. effect are also given ; and in the exercise of the jurisdiction, if the course
of proceeding be not specifically pointed out by statute, any suitable pro­
cess or mode of proceeding may be adopted which may appear most con­
formable to the spirit of this cocle.-Laws of 1891, p. 94, § 12. 
State v. Sup'r Ct. Yakima Co., 29 P. 764. 4 W. 30. 
i 6g. Jury defined. 
JURiltS--QU ALIFICATIONS AND EXEMPTIONS. 
i 70. Kinda of juries.
~ 71. Graud jury defined. 
i 72. Trial jury defined. 
i 73. Jury of inquest defined. 
CHAPTER VIII. 
~ 74. Who may be jurors. 
i 75. Who may claim exemption-disqualifica­
tion not to invalidate proceedings. 
i -,6. Who may be excused. 
§ 6g. [50.] Jury defined. A jury is a body of men temporarily se­
lected from the qualified inhabitants of a particular district, and invested
with power,- 
1. To present or indict a person for a public offense. 
2. To try a question of fact.-Laws of 1891, p. 86, § 1. 
§ 70. (51.] Kinds of juries. There shall be three kinds of juries:- 
1. A grand jury ; 
2. A petit jury;
3. A jury of inquest.-Laws of 1891, p. 86, § 2. 
§ 71. (52.J Grand jury defined. A grand jury is a body of men,
not less than twelve nor more than seventeen in number, impaneled and 
sworn to inquire of public offenses committed or triable within the county.
-Laws of 1891, p. 86, § 3. 
§ 72. (53.J Trial jury defined. A petit jury is a body of men,
twelve in number, in the superior court, and six in number in the courts 
of justices of the peace, drawn in the superior court by lot from thejurors
in attendance upon the court at a particular session in the superior court,
and sworn to try and determine a question of fact ; but in a justice's
court the jury is drawn according to the mode specially provided for such 
court.-Laws of 1891, p. 87, § 4. 
§ 73. (54.J Jury of inquest defined. A jury of inquest is a body of
men, six in number, summoned from the qualified inhabitants of a par­ 
ticular district, before the coroner, or other ministerial officer, to inquire
of particular facts. -Laws of I 891, p. 87, § 5. 
§ 74. (55.] Who may be jurors. A person is not competent to act as 
a juror unless he be,- 
1. An elector of the state of Washington. 
2. A male inhabitant of the county in which he is returned, and who
has been an inhabitant thereof for the year next preceding the time he is
drawn or called ; 
3. Over twenty-one years of age; 
4; In possession of his natural faculties and of sound mind. 
5. A person who bas been convicted of a felony is not competent to act
as a juror.-Laws of 1891, p. 87, § 6. 
Rose v. State, 26 p. 264, 2 W. 310. 
§ 7 5. (56.] Who may claim exemption-Disqualifications not to 
invalidate proceedings. Civil officers of the United States, civil and
judicial officers of the state, attorneys at law, ministers of the gospel or
priests, school teachers, practicing physicians, locomotive engineers, ac­
tive members of the fire department of any city or village, all persons
who have served twice as a juror within two years, and all persons over
sixty years of age, shall not be compelled to serve as jurors; and in pre­
paring jury lists the county commissioners shall omit the names of such
persons; but no act of a grand or petit jury shall be invalid by reason of
such person or persons aforesaid, qualified in other respects, serving there­
on ; nor shall any disqualification of any member of a grand or petit
jury affect the indictment or verdict, unless the juror for that specific
cause was challenged or excepted to before the rendition of the indict­
ment or verdict, and the challenge or exception overruled, and error spe­
cifically assigned upon the overruling of such challenge or exception.­ 
Laws of 1891, p. 87, § 7-1887-8, p. 117, § 2. 
§ 76. (57.] Who may be excused. A person may be excused from
acting as a juror when, for any reason, his interests or those of the public
will be materially injured by his attendance ; or when his own health, or 
the death or sickness of a member of his family, requires his absence; 
but no person shall be excused on account of the causes in this section
mentioned, unless it appear that after he was summoned he could not, by
reasonable precaution, have provided against them.-Laws of 1891, p. 
87, § 7. 
MANNER OF DRAWING AND SUMMONING JURORS. 
i 77. County commissioners to prepare jury
lists. 
i 78. Judges may order jurors to be drawn-
1\lanner of drawing. 
a, 79. Manner of drawing grand jurors. 
CHAPTER IX. 
f So. Clerk may call other officers to assist
him. 
i 81. Irregularities not to invalidate proceed-
ings. 
f 82. If venire set aside open venlre may issue. 
i 83- Open venire to fill incomplete panels. 
~ 84. Sheriff shall summon jurors.
~ 85. Not to serve but once a year-cause of 
challenge. 
§ 77. [58.] County commissioners to prepare jury lists. Every
board of county commissioners, on or before the first Monday of Febru­ 
ary in each year, shall select from the persons in their county, qualified
to serve as petit jurors, the names of one hundred persons to serve as
petit jurors for the ensuing year, and from the persons in their county,
qualified to serve as grand jurors, the names of one hundred persons to
serve as grand jurors for the ensuing year, and shall certify the same in
separate lists to the clerk of the district court of the district and county
to which such county may be attached for judicial purposes ; provided,
that if from any cause the county commissioners are unable to select the
full number of names in this section provided for, they shall select such
less number as they may agree upon, and in such case they shall include
in their certificate to the clerk of the district court the reason why such
less number have been selected.-Laws of 1887-8, p. 115, § 1. 
§ 78. [59.] Judges may order jurors to be drawn-Manner of
drawing. Until otherwise provided, the judges of the superior courts
may order, at such times as they see fit, a panel of not less than twelve 
nor more than twenty-four petit jurors, to be drawn from the last jury
list certified by the connty commissioners ( whether same has been pre­
viously drawn from or not is not to be considered), and the clerk of the
superior court or his deputy, and the sheriff and county auditor, shall
place ballots prepared from such list in a box, and having thoroughly
mixed them, the clerk or his' deputy, being blindfolded, shall draw the
requisite number to serve as such petit jurors. The list thus drawn shall
be certified to by the sheriff and auditor, and within three days the clerk
shall issue to the sheriff of the county a venire containing the names of
the persons thus drawn as petit jurors, returnable at a day and hour to be
named by the judge of said court; and until otherwise provided, previ-.
ous service as jurors within one or two years, or having been previously
drawn from said list, shall be no excuse for service on said jury, the 
party being otherwise qualified to serve as a juror.-Laws ef 1889-901 p.
325, § I. 
§ 79. [6o.] Manner of drawing grand jurors. Until otherwise
provided, the judges of the superior courts may, at such times as they 
see fit, order a panel of grand jurors to be drawn from the last jury lists
certified by the county commissioners (whether the same has previously
been drawn from or not), and the clerk of the superior court, or his dep­
uty, and the sheriff and county auditor, shall place ballots prepared from
such list in a box, and having thoroughly mixed them, the clerk, or his
deputy, being blindfolded, shall draw the requisite number to serve as
such grand jurors. The list thus drawn shall be certified to by the sher­
iff and auditor, and within three days the clerk shall issue to the sheriff
of the county a venire containing the names of the persons thus drawn 
as grand jurors, returnable at a day and hour to be named by the judge 
of said court; and until otherwise provided, previous service as jurors
within two years, or having been previously drawn from said list, shall be
no excuse for service on said jury, the party being otherwise qualified to 
serve as a grand juror.-Laws of 1889-90, p. 331, § 1. 
§ 80. (61.] Clerk may call other officers to assist him. If from any
cause the sheriff or auditor, or both, shall not attend and assist the clerk
in drawing jurors, as in this chapter provided, the clerk may call to his
assistance such other county officer or officers as he may choose, and they
shall proceed as is prescribed for the auditor and sheriff.-Laws of 1887-8, 
p. 116, § 3. 
§ 81. (62.] Irregularities not to invalidate proceedings. The fail­
ure on the part of any officer to perform the duties required within the
time, or other irregularity in said drawing, shall in no way invalidate the
selecting, summoning, or drawing of said jurors.-Laws of 1889-90, p. 
332, § 2. 
§ 82. (63.] If venire set aside open venire may issue. If for any
cause the court shall see fit to set aside the venire for grand or petit
jurors, returned as above provided, an open venire may thereupon issue
to the sheriff, who shall thereupon complete the panel by such open venire 
as speedily as possible.-Laws of 1891, p. 88, § 8-1889-90, p. 332, § 3.
§ 83. (64.] Open venire to fill incomplete panels. If for any cause 
a sufficient number of grand or petit jurors are not returned by the sher­
iff in the manner first herein contemplated, or if a sufficient number of
grand or petit jurors are not in attendance, the court may order the panel
filled by summoning a sufficient number by an open venire issued and di­
rected to the sheriff.-Laws of 1891, p. 88, § 9. 
§ 84. (65.] Sheriff shall summon jurors. When a venire is deliv­
ered to the sheriff, he shall without delay proceed to summon the jurors 
as therein directed, and shall immediately thereafter make and file in the
court a return of his doings thereon.-Laws of 18911 p. 88, § 10. 
§ 85. [66.] Not to serve but once a year-Cause of challenge. No
person shall be summoned as a petit juror in any superior court upon 
an open venire more than once in one year; and it shall be sufficient cause
of challenge to any juror called to be sworn in any cause that he has been
summoned upon an open venire and attended said court as a juror at any
session of said court held within one year prior to the time of such
challenge ; or that he has been summoned from the by-standers or body
of the county, and has served as a juror in any cause upon such sum­
mons, within one year prior to the time of such challenge. -Laws of 1891, 
p. 88, § II. . 
§ 86. (68.] Supreme Oourt to appoint clerk-Term of office. The
supreme court, or the judges thereof, shall appoint a clerk, who shall 
hold office during the pleasure of such court.-Constz"tution, Art. 4, § 22. 
Code of 188r,§ 2r74. 
§ 87. (69.] Oath of office-Bond. Before entering upon the duties of
his office, he shall take an oath of office, and give bond in such a sum,
with surety and condition, as the said court or judges thereof shall re­
quire, which bond shall be deposited with the secretary of the territory.
The bond shall be to the territory of Washington, and any party ag­
grieved by the official acts or omissions of said clerk may have his action
thereon.-Codeef r881, § 2r75. 
§ 88. (70.] Office to be at seat of government. The clerk shall
keep his office at the seat of government, and shall keep it open at all
seasonable hours, and shall keep such records and books as are prescribed 
by law and the supreme court.-Code of 1881, §. 2176.
§ 89. (71.] Superior court clerk's office to be at county seat. 
The office of the clerk of the superior court shall be kept at the county
seat of the county of which he is clerk.-Laws ef 1891, p. 98, § 1. 
§ go. (72.] Clerk's office hours. Each clerk of a superior court shall
keep his office open for the transaction of business, on every judicial day, 
from eight to twelve in the forenoon, and from one to five in the after­
noon.~Laws of 1891, p. 98, § 2. 
§ 91. (73.] Clerk's powers and duties. The clerk of the supreme
court, and each clerk of a superior court has power to take and certify 
the proof and acknowledgment of a conveyance. of real property or any
other written instrument, authorized or required to be proved or ac­
knowledged, and to administer oaths in every case when authorized
by law ; and it is the duty of the clerk of the supreme court, and of each
county clerk for each of the courts for which he is clerk,- 
1. To keep the seal of the court, and affix it in all cases where he is
required by law : 
2. To record the proceedings of the court;
3. To keep the records, files, and other books and papers appertaining 
to the court ;
4. To file all papers delivered to him for that purpose, in any action 
or proceeding in the court ;
5. To attend the court of which he is clerk, to administer oaths, and 
receive the verdict of a jury in any action or proceeding therein, in the
presence and under the direction of the court ; 
6. To keep the journal of the proceedings of the court, and, under
the direction of the court, to enter its orders, judgments and decrees. 
7. To authenticate, by certificate or transcript, as may be required, the
records,. files, or proceedings of the court, or any other paper appertain­
ing thereto, and filed with him ; 
8. To exercise the powers and perform the duties conferred and imposed
upon him elsewhere by statute ; 
9. In the performance of his duties, to conform to the direction of the
court.-Laws of 1891, p. 98, § 3. 
§ 92. (74.] Powers of deputy clerks. The clerk of the supreme
court, and each clerk of a superior court, may have one or more deputies,
to be appointed by such clerk in writing, and to continue during his pleas­ 
ure. Such deputies have the power to perform any act or duty relating to
the clerk's office that their respective principals have, and their respective
principals are responsible for their conduct.-Laws of 1891, p. 98, § 4. 
§ 93. (75.] Clerks shall not practice law. Each clerk of a court is
prohibited during his continuance in office from acting, or having a part­
ner who acts, as an attorney of the court of which he is clerk.-Laws of 
1891, p. 99, § 5. 
I 94. Sheriff' chief executive officer-His
duties. 
I 95. His office must be at county seat.
I 96. Sheriff's office hours.
I 97. Sheriff's deputies-Responsibility. 
§ 94. (76.] Sheriff chief executive ofllcer-Bis duties. The sheriff
is the chief executive officer and conservator of the peace of the county.
In the execution of his office it is his duty,- 
1. To arrest and commit to prison all persons who break the peace, or
attempt to break it, and all persons guilty of public offenses ; 
2. To defend his county against those who, by riot or otherwise, endan­
ger the public peace or safety ; 
3. To execute the process and orders of the courts of justice or
judicial officers, when delivered to him for that purpose, according to the
provisions of this code or other statutes ; 
4. To execute all warrants delivered to him for that purpose by other
public officers according to the provisions of particular statutes ; 
5. To attend the sessions of the courts of record held within his
county, and to obey their lawful orders or directions. 
The county is not responsible for the acts of the sheriff.-Laws of 1891, 
p. 83, § 1. 
SHERIFFS, CORONERS, BAILIFFS AND CRIERS. 
§ 95. [77.J Bis ofllce must be at county seat. The sheriff must
keep his office at the county seat of the county of which he is sheriff. - 
Laws of 1891, p. 84, § 2. 
. 
CHAPTER XI. 
I 98. Powers and duties of deputy sheriff's.
I 99. Coroner to act when sheriff' disqualified.
I too. Sheriff's and coroners shall not practice 
law.
I tot. Court may appoint criers and bailiff's. 
§ 96. (78.] Shetiff's ofllce hours. The sheriff's office must be kept
open on the days and during the hours required for the clerk's office to be 
kept open.-Laws of 1891, p. 84, § 3.
~ 97. [79.] Sheriffs' deputies-Responsibilities. Each sheriff may 
appoint as many deputies as he may think proper, for whose official acts 
he shall be responsible to the amount of their [his] bond, and may re­
voke such appointments at his pleasure ; and persons may also be deputed
by any sheriff in writing to do particular acts ; and the sheriff shall be re­
sponsible on his official bond for the default or misconduct in office of his
deputies. -Code of 1881, § 2767. 
§ 98. [80.] Powers and duties of deputy sheriffs. Every deputy
sheriff shall possess all the power, and may perform any of the duties,
prescribed by law to be performed by the sheriff or by his deputies ; shall
serve or execute, according to law, all process, writs, precepts, and orders,
issued or made by lawful authority, and to him directed, and he shall at­
tend upon all courts of record at every term. Provided that neither nor
any of his deputies shall receive a per diem allowance for attendance on
probate courts, except when having insane persons in charge.-Laws of 
1885-6, p. 174, § I. 
§ 99. [81.] Coroner to act when sheriff disqualified. The coro­
ner shall perform the duties of sheriff in all cases where the sheriff is
interested, or otherwise incapacitated from serving; and whenever the 
coroner acts as sheriff he shall possess the powers and perform all the
duties of sheriff, and shall be liable on his official bond in like manner as
a sheriff would be, and shall be entitled to the same fees as are allowed
by law to the sheriff for similar services; but before serving any process,
as required by this section, the eorener shall give an additional bond in
double the amount of the sum sued for or damages claimed.-Code of 
1881, § 2776. 
§ 100. [82.] Sheriffs and coroners shall not practice law. No sher­
iff, deputy sheriff, or coroner shall appear or practice as attorney in any 
court, except in defense of himself or his deputies.-Laws of 1891, p. 84, 
§ 4· 
§ 101. [83.] Oourt may appoint criers and bailiffs. Every court of
record shall have the power to appoint a crier and as many bailiffs as may 
be necessary for the orderly and expeditous dispatch of the business.­
Laws of 1891, p. 94, § 13. 
ATTORNEY GENERAL AND PROSECUTING ATTORNEYS. 
~ 102. Powers and duties of attorney general. 
i 103. Who arc prosecuting attorneys. 
l 104- Who arc eligible 
CHAPTER XII. 
i 105. Court may appoint prosecuting attor­
ney-When. 
i 1o6. Prosecuting attorney may appoint depu­
ties. 
i 107. Powers and duties of prosecuting attor­
neys. 
§ 102. [84.] Powers and duties of attorney general. The powers
and duties of attorney general, in relation to actions and proceedings
in the courts, shall be,- 
1. To appear for and represent the state before the supreme court in all
cases in which the state is interested ; 
2. To institute and prosecute all actions and proceedings for or for the
use of the state, which may be necessary in the execution of the duties
of any state officer ; .- 
3. To defend all actions and proceedings against any state officer in his 
official capacity, in any of the courts of this state or the United States;
4. To consult and advise the several prosecuting attorneys in matters 
relating to the duties of their office, and when, in his judgment, the in­
terests of the state require, he shall attend the trial of any person ac­
cused of a crime, and assist in the prosecution.-Constitution, Art. 3, § I. 
Laws of 1891, p. 95, § 2. 
§ 103. [85.] Who are prosecuting attorneys, Prosecuting attorneys
are attorneys authorized by law to appear for and represent the state and 
the counties thereof in actions and proceedings before the courts and ju­ 
dicial officers.-Laws of 1891, p. 95, § 3. 
§ 104. [86.] Who are eligible. No person shall be eligible to the of­
fice of prosecuting attorney in any county of this state, unless he be a
qualified elector thereof, and shall have been admitted as an attorney 
and counselor of the courts of this state.-Laws of 1891, p. 95, § 4. 
§ 105. [87.] When courts may appoint prosecuting attorney. 
When from illness or other cause the prosecuting attorney is temporarily
unable to perform his duties, the court or judge may appoint some quali­
fied person to discharge the duties of such officer in court until such disa­ 
bility is removed.-Laws of 1891, p. 95, § 5. 
§ 106. [88.] Prosecuting attorneys may appoint deputies. The
prosecuting attorney of each county may appoint one or more deputies, 
not to exceed two, who shall have the same power in all respects as their
principal. Such appointment shall be in writing, signed by the prose­
cuting attorney, and filed in the county auditor's office. Each deputy
thus appointed shall have the same qualifications required of the district
attorney, but his appointment may be revoked by the district attorney at
will. The prosecuting attorney shall be responsible for the acts of his 
deputies.-Laws of 1891, p. 96, § 6. 
§ 107. [89.] Powers and duties of posecuting attorneys. The
prosecuting attorney of each county shall have authority, and it shall be 
his duty, subject to the supervisory control and direction of the attorney
general, to appear for and represent the state and the county of which he
is prosecuting attorney, in all criminal and civil actions and proceedings
in such county in which the state or such county is a party.-Laws of 
1891, p. 96, § 7. 
e 1o8. Attorneys and counselors defined. 
e IO<), Who are entitled to practice U SUCh, 
e IIO. Qualification for admi8Sion. 
i 111. Supreme court shall prescribe rules for
admission. 
i 112. Duties and obligations of attorneys. 
i 113. Authority of attorneys. 
ATTORNEYS AND COUNSELORS. 
e I 14. Court may relieve party when attorney
acts without authority. 
e IIS, Attorney required to show authority. 
e 116. How an attorney may be changed. 
i u7. Notice of change must be given. 
CHAPTER XIII. 
e 118. Twenty days notice in case of death or
removal of attorney. 
e 119. Attorneys• lien. 
f 120. Attorney may be ordered to deliver pa- 
e 121. 
e 122. 
e 123. 
i 124. 
~ 125. 
pers or money.
Proceeding in case attorney claims lien. 
Causes of removal and suspension.
How attorney may be removed.
Same.
A party or his attorney only may prac­ 
tice. 
§ 108. [90.] Attorneys and counselors defined. An attorney is a
person authorized to appear for and represent a party in the written pro- 
ceedings in any action or proceeding, in any stage thereof. An attorney,
other than the one who represents the party in the written proceedings,
may also appear for and represent a party in court or before a judicial offi­
cer, and then he is known in the particular action or proceeding as coun­
sel only, and his authority is limited to the acts that are done in the court
or before such officer at that time.-Laws of 1891, p. 95, § 1. 
§ 109. (91.] Who are entitled to practice as such. The following
persons are entitled to practice as attorneys and counselors of all the courts
of this state :- 
1. All citizens of the United States who were duly admitted as attor­
neys and counselors of the supreme court or any district court of the ter­
ritory of Washington ; 
2. All citizens of the United States who shall have been admitted as
attorneys and counselors of the supreme court of the state of Washing­
ton. -Laws of 1891, p. 96, § 8. 
§ 110 (92.] Qualificati~n for admission. Before any person shall be
admitted as an attorney or counselor in this state, it must appear to the
satisfaction of the court to which he applies for admission,- 
1. That he is a citizen of the United States, and of the age of twenty­
one years; 
2. That he is of good moral character ;
3. That he has the requisite learning and ability to practice as an attor­ 
ney and counselor at law, and has diligently studied the common law and
the laws of this state, for at least eighteen months previous to the date of
his application, under the direction of some practicing attorney within
the state, or is a graduate of a law school within the United States, or
has been admitted as an attorney and counselor of the highest court of
record of another state or territory of the United States.-Laws of 1891, 
p. 96, § 9· 
§ 111. (93.] Supreme court shall prescribe rules for admission. 
Subject to the provisions and restrictions contained in the last preced­
ing section, the supreme court shall make rules for the examination and
admission of attorneys and counselors of the courts of this state, and no
person shall be admitted except in accordance with such rules.-Laws of 
1891, p. 97, § IO. 
§ 112. (94.] Duties and obligations of attorneys. It shall be the
duty of an attorney and counselor, - 
1. To support the constitution of the United States and the laws of the
territory ; · 
2. To maintain the respect due to the courts of justice and judicial
officers; 
3. To counsel or maintain such actions, proceedings, or defenses only
as appear to him legal and just, except the defense of a person charged
with a public offense; 
4. To employ, for the purpose of maintaining the causes confided to
him, such means only as are consistent with truth, and never to seek to
mislead the judge by any artifice or false statement of fact or law; 
5. To maintain inviolate the confidence, and at every peril to himself
to preserve the secrets, of his client ; 
6. To abstain from all offensive personality, and to advance no fact 
prejudicial to the honor or reputation of a party or witness, unless re­
quired by the justice of the cause with which he is charged; 
7. Never to reject, from any consideration personal to himself, the
cause of the defenseless or oppressed. =Code of 1881, § 3279. 
§ 113. (95.] Authority of attorneys. An attorney and counselor has
authority.- 
I. To bind his client in any of the proceedings in an action or special
proceeding by his agreement duly made, or entered upon the minutes of
the court ; but the court shall disregard all agreements and stipulations in
relation to the conduct of or any of the proceedings in an action or
special proceeding, unless such agreement or stipulation be made in
open court, or in presence of the clerk, and entered in the minutes by
him, or signed by the party against whom the same is alleged, or his
attorney. · 
2. To receive money claimed by his client in an action or special pro­
ceeding during the pendency thereof, or after judgment upon the pay­
ment thereof, and not otherwise, to discharge . the same or acknowledge 
satisfaction of the judgment.
3. This section shall not prevent a party employing a new attorney, or 
from issuing an execution upon a judgment, or from taking other pro­
ceedings prescribed by statute for its enforcement.-Code of 1881, § 3280. 
§ 114. (96.] Court may relieve party when attorney acts without
authority. If it be alleged by a party for whom an attorney appears
that he does so without authority, the court may at any stage of the pro­
ceedings relieve the party for whom the attorney has assumed to appear
from the consequences of his act; it may also summarily, upon motion,
compel the attorney to repair the injury to either party consequent upon
his assumption of authority-Code of 1881, § 3281. 
§ n5. [97.] Attorney required to show authority. The court or a
judge may, on motion of either party, and on showing reasonable grounds 
therefor, require the attorney for the adverse party, or for any one of sev­
eral adverse parties, to produce or prove the authority under which heap­
pears, and until be does so, may stay all proceedings by him on behalf of
the party for whom he assumes to appear.-Code of 1881, § 3282. 
§ 116. [98.] How an attorney may be changed. The attorney in an
action or special proceeding may be changed at any time before judgment 
or final determination as follows :- 
1. Upon his own consent, filed with the clerk or entered upon the min-
utes; or . 
2. Upon the order of the court, or a judge thereof, on the application
of the client, or for other sufficient cause ; but no such change can be
made until the charges of such attorney have been paid by the party ask­
ing such change to be made.-Code of 1881, § 3283. 
§ 117. (99.] Notice of change must be given. When an attorney
is changed, as provided in the last section, written, notice of the change, 
and of the substitution of a new attorney, or of the appearance of the
party in person, must be given to the adverse party; until then, he shall 
.be bound to recognize the former attorney.-Code of 1881, § 3284.
§ n8. [100.] Twenty days notice in case of death or removal of 
attorney. When an attorney dies, or is removed or suspended, or ceases 
to act as such, a party to an action for whom he was acting as attorney
must, at least twenty days before any further proceedings against him, be
required by the adverse party, by written notice, to appoint another attor­ 
ney, or to appear in person.-Code of 1881, § 3285.
~ 119. [ror.] Attorney's lien. An attorney has a lien for his com­ 
pensation, whether specially agreed upon or implied, as hereinafter pro­
vided,- 
1. Upon the papers of his client, which have come into his possession
in the course of his professional employment; 
2. Upon money in bis hands belonging to his client;
3. Upon money in the hands of the adverse party in an action or pro­ 
ceeding, in which the attorney was employed, from the time of giving
notice of the lien to that party, 
4. Upon a judgment to the extent of the value of any services performed
by him in the action, or if the services were rendered under a special
agreement, for the sum due under such agreement, from the time of filing
notice of such lien or claim with the clerk of the court in which such
judgment is entered, which notice must be filed with the papers in the ac­ 
tion in which such judgment was rendered, and an entry made in the ex­
ecution docket, showing name of claimant, amount claimed, and date of
filing notice.-Code of 1881, § 3286. 
§ 120. [102.] Attorneys may be ordered to. deliver papers or
money. When an attorney refuses to deliver over money or papers to a
person from or for whom he has received them in the course of profes­
sional employment, whether in an action ,or not, he may be required by
an order of the court in which an action, if any, was prosecuted, or if no
action was prosecuted, then by order of any judge of a court of record,
to do so within a specified time, or show cause why he should not be 
punished for contempt.-Code of 1881, § 3287. 
§ 121. (103.] Proceedings in case attorney claims lien. If, how­
ever, the attorney claim a lien upon the money or papers, under the pro­ 
visions of this chapter, the court or judge may,- 
1. Impose as a condition of making the order that the client give security,
in a form and amount to be directed, to satisfy the lien, when determined
in an action ; 
2. Summarily to inquire into the facts on which the claim of a lien is
founded, and determine the same ; or 
3. To refer it, and upon the report determine the same as in other
cases-Code of 1881, § 3288. 
§ 122. [roa.] Cause of removal or suspension. An attorney or coun­
selor may be removed or suspended by any court of record, at a regular
term thereof, for either of the following causes, arising after his admission
to practice : - · 
1. Upon his being convicted of felony, or of a misdemeanor involving
moral turpitude, in either of which cases the record of his conviction is
conclusive evidence ; 
2. For a willful disobedience or violation of the order of a court re­
quiring him to do or forbear an act connected with or in the course of his 
profession ;
3. For a willful violation of any of the provisions of section 3279 [ 112] 
-Code of 1881, § 3289. 
§ 123. [105.J How attorney may be removed. The proceedings to
remove or suspend an attorney and counselor, as provided in the last section, must be taken by the court of its own motion for matter within
its knowledge, or may be taken upon the information of another, and in
either case the party shall have the privilege of making his defense. - 
Code of 1881, § 3290. 
§ I 24. [ 106]. Same. Such proceedings shall be by motion and answer,
and evidence may be examined on either side.-Codeof 1881, § 3291. 
§ 125. [107.J A party or his attorney only may practice. No per­
son shall practice in any court of record except a party or his regularly 
authorized attorney and counselor at law; provided, that nothing herein
shall be so construed as to prevent a party from employing any person to
assist him in the preparation of his papers in the case before the time of
trial, nor so as to prevent any person from trying any particular cause in
court, leave of court being first had and obtained, and entered of record,­
Code of 1881, § 3292. 
THE COMMENCEMENT OF ACTIONS AND PLEADINGS. 
CHAPTBR 14. Statute of Limitation of Actions.
CHAPTER 15. Forms of Actions and parties thereto.
CHAPTER 16. Venue of Actions.
CHAPTER 17. Manner of Commencing Civil Actions.
CHAPTER 18. Pleadings
CHAPTER 19. Verification of Pleadings.
CHAPTER 20. General Rules of Pleading.
CHAPTER 21. Mistakes and Amendments. 
?. 126. Must be begun within time specified­
Objection by demurrer or answer. 
~ 127. Actions to be commenced within ten
years. 
~ 128. Within six years. 
i 129. Within five years. 
i 130. Within three years, 
;, 131. Within two years. 
i! 132. Within one year. 
STATUTE: OF LIMITATION OF ACTIONS. 
t 133. Action on statute for penalty. 
i 134- Within three months. 
~ 135. Actions not specified within two years. 
'- 136. Action• on open accounts. 
i! 137. Statute shall run against the state. 
CHAPTER XIV. 
e 138. Statute suspended by absence of defend·
ant. 
TITLE II. 
i 139. Suspended for personal disability of
plaintiff. 
i 140. Suspended by death of party. 
e 141. Sus~ded by war. 
i 142. Suspended by judicial proceedings. 
i 143. Suspended by reve~l of judgment. 
l 144. Disability must exist when action ac­
crues. 
i 145. All disabilities to be removed before lim-
itation attaches. 
i 146. New promise to be in writing. 
e 147. Part payment stops statute running. 
i 148. If action barred in foreign state, barred
here. 
i 149. Time run deemed part of time pre·
scribed. 
§ 126. [1u.J Must be begun within time specified-Objection by
demurrer or answer. Actions can only be commenced within the 
periods herein prescribed after the cause of action shall have accrued, ex­
cept when in special cases a different limitation is prescribed by statute ; .
but the objection that the action was not commenced within the time lim­
ited can only be taken by answer or demurrer.-Laws of 1891, p. go,§ 1. 
Wilt v. Buchtel, 7 P. 8g1. 2 W. T. 417. 
§ 127. [112.] Action to be commenced within ten- yea.rs. The
period prescribed in the preceding section for the commencement of actions
shall be as follows :- 
Within ten years,- 
1. Actions for the recovery of real property, or for the recovery of the
possession thereof; and no action shall be maintained for such recovery
unless it appear that the plaintiff, his ancestor, predecessor, or grantor,
was seized or possessed of the premises in question within ten years be­
fore the commencement of the action.-Code of 1881, § 26. 
Balch v. Smith, 30 P. 684, 4 W., 497. Roeder v. Fouts, 31 P. 432, 5. W. Bullen
v. Garrison, I W. T., 587.- Parker v. Dacres, 2 W. T. 439, 24 P. 192. Bel.
Bay L. Co. v. Dibble, 31 P. 30, 4 W. 764. 
§ 128. [113.} Within six years. Within six years,- 
1. An action upon a judgment or decree of any court of the United
States, or of any state or territory within the United States; 
2. An action upon a contract in writing, or liability express or implied
arising out of a written agreement. 
3. An action for the rents and profits or for the use and occupation of
real estate.-Code oj 1881, § 27. 
Burns v. Conner, 23 P. 8361 1 W., 6. 
§ 129. [114.] Within five years. No action for the recovery of any
real estate soJd by an executor or administrator under the laws of this
state, or the laws of the territory of Washington, shall be maintained by
any heir or other person claiming under the deceased, unless it is com­
menced within five years next after the sale, and no action for any estate
sold by a guardian shall be maintained by the ward, or by any person
claiming under him, unless commenced within five years next after the
termination of the guardianship, except that minors and other persons
under legal disability to sue at the time when the right of action first
accrued may commence such action at any time within three years after 
the removal of the disability.-Laws of 1889-90, p. 81, § 1. 
§ 130. [n5.] Within three years. Within three years,-- 
1. An action for waste or trespass upon real property ; 
2. An action for taking, detaining, or injuring personal property, in­
cluding an action for the specific recovery thereof, or for any other injury
to the person or rights of another not hereinafter enumerated ; 
3. An action upon a contract or liability, express or implied, which is
not in writing, and does not arise out of any written instrument; 
4. An action for relief upon the ground of fraud, the cause of action in
such case not to be deemed to have accrued until the discovery by the
aggrieved party of the facts constituting the fraud; 
5. An action against a sheriff, coroner, or constable upon a liability in­
curred by the doing of an act in his official capacity and by virtue of his
office, or by the omission of an official duty, including the non-payment
of money collected upon an execution; but this sub-division shall not
apply to action for an escape ; 
6. An action upon a statute for penalty or forfeiture, where an action is
given to the party aggrieved, or to such party and the territory, except
when the statute imposing it prescribed a different penalty ; 
7. An action for seduction and breach of promise of marriage.-Code of 
1881, § 28. 
Wagner v. Law, 28 P. uog. 3 W. 500. 
§ 131. [116.] Within two years. Within two years,- 
1. An action for libel, slander, assault, assault and battery, and false
imprisonment ; 
2. An action upon a statute for a forfeiture or penalty to the territory.
-Code of 1881, § 29. 
§ 132. [117.] Within one year. Within one year,- 
1. An action against a sheriff or other officer for the escape of a pris­
oner arrested or imprisoned on civil process ; 
2. An action by an heir, legatee, creditor, or other party interested,
against an executor or administrator, for alleged misfeasance, malfeasance
or mismanagement of the estate within one year from the time of final
settlement, or the time such alleged misconduct was discovered.-Code of 
1881, § 30. 
Bartels v. Gove, 30 P. 675. 4 W. 632. 
§ 133. [118.] Action on statute for penalty. An action upon a stat­
ute for a penalty given in whole or in part to the person who may prose­ 
cute for the same shall be commenced within three years after the com­
mission of the offense ; and if the action be not commenced within one
year by a private party, it may be commenced within two years after the
commission of the offense in behalf of the territory by the prosecuting
attorney of the district in which the county is situated where said of­ 
fense was committed.-Code of 1881, § 31. 
§ 134. [119.] Within three months. Within three months,- 
1. An appea 1 from any order of a board of county commissioners, or
upon a claim rejected by said board; 
2. Upon claims against an estate, rejected by an executor or adminis­
trator within three months after the rejection.-Code of 1881, § 32. 
§ 135. [ 120.] Actions not specified, within two years. An action
for relief not hereinbefore provided for shall be commenced within two 
years after the cause of action shall have accrued.-Code of 1881, § 33. 
Wagner v. Law, 28 P. uog. 3 W. 500. Parker v. Dacres, 24 P. 192. 2 W. T. 
439. 130 U. s. 43. 
§ 136. [121.] Actions on open accounts. In an action brought to re­
cover a balance due upon a mutual, open, and current account, where 
there have been reciprocal demands between the parties, the cause of ac­
tion shall be deemed to have accrued from the time of the last item
proved in the account on either side; but whenever a period of more than
one year shall have elapsed between any of a series of items or demands,
they are not to be deemed such an account.-Code of 1881, § 34. 
§ 137. (122.] Statute shall run against the state. The limita­
tions prescribed in this act shall apply to actions brought in the name of
the territory, or any county or other public corporation therein, or for its
benefit, in the same manner as to actions by private parties. An action 
shall be deemed commenced when the complaint is filed.-Codeef 1881, 
§ 35. 
§ 138. [123.] Statute suspended by absence of defendant. If the
cause of action shall accrue against any person who shall be out of the 
territory or concealed therein, such action may be commenced within the
terms herein respectively limited after the return of such person into the
territory, or after the time of such concealment; and if after such cause
of action shall have accrued, such person shall depart from and reside out
of the territory, or conceal himself, the time of his absence or concealment
shall not be deemed or taken as any part of the time limited for the com­ 
mencement of such action.·-Code of 1881, § 36. 
§ 139. [124.] Suspended for personal disability. If a person entitled to bring an action mentioned in this chapter, except for a penalty
or forfeiture, or against a sheriff or other officer, for an escape, be, at the 
time the cause of action accrued, either under the age of twenty-one
years, or insane, or imprisoned on a criminal charge, or in execution un­
der the sentence of a court for a term less than his natural life, the time
of such disability shall not be a part of the time limited for the com­
mencement of action.-Code of 1881, § 37. 
§ 140. [125.] Suspended by death of party. If a person entitled
to bring an action die before the expiration of the time limited for the 
commencement thereof, and the cause of action survive, an action may be
commenced by his representatives after the expiration of the time and
within one year from his death. If a person against whom au action
may be brought die before the expiration of the time limited for the com­
mencement thereof, and the cause of action survives, an action may be
commenced against his representatives after the expiration of that time,
and within one year after the issuing of letters testamentary or of admin­
istration.-Code ef 1881, § 38. 
§ 141. [126.] Suspended by war, When a person shall be an alien
subject or a citizen of a country at war with the United States, the time
of the continuance of the war shall not be a part of the period limited for
the commencement of the action.-Code of 1881, § 39. 
§ 142. [127.] Suspended by judicial proceedings. When the com­
mencement of an action is stayed by injunction or a statutory prohibition,
the time of the continuance of the injunction or prohibition shall not be 
a part of the time limited for the commencement of the action.-Code ef 
1881, § 40. 
§ 143. [128.] Suspended by reversal of judgment. If an action
shall be commenced within the time prescribed therefor, and a judgment 
therein for the plaintiff be reversed on error or appeal, the plaintiff, or if
he die and the cause of action survives, his heirs or representatives, may
commence a new action within one year after the reversal.-Code of 
1881, § 41. 
§ 144. [129.] Disability must exist when action accrues. No per­
son shall avail himself of a disability unless it existed when his right of 
action accrued.-Code of 1881, § 42. 
§ 145. [130.] All disabilities to be removed before limitation
attaches. When two or more disabilities shall co-exist at the time the 
right of action accrues, the limitation shall no\ attach until they all be re­
moved. - Code of 1881, § 43. 
§ 146. [131.] New promise must be in writing. No acknowledg­
ment or promise shall be sufficient evidence of a new or continuing con­
tract whereby to take the case out of the operation of this chapter, un­
less the same is contained in some writing signed by the party to be
charged thereby ; but this section shall not alter the effect of any pay­
ment of principal or interest.-Code of 1881, § 44. 
Yesler v. De Kosloski, 8 P. 493. 2 W. T., 407. 
§ 147. [132.] Part payment stops statute running. When any pay­
ment of principal or interest has been or shall be made upon any exist­
ing contract, whether it be a bill of exchange, promissory note, bond, or 
other evidence of indebtedness, if such payment shall be made after the
same shall have become due, the limitation shall commence from the
time the last payment was made.-Code of 1881, § 45. 
Yesler v. De Kosloski, 8 P. 493. 2 W. T., 407. 
§ 148. [133.] If action barred in foreign states, barred here. 
When the cause of action has arisen in another state, territory, or coun­
try between non-residents of this territory, and by the laws of the state,
territory, or country where the action arose an action cannot be main­
tained thereon by reason of the lapse of time, no action shall be main­
tained thereon in this territory.-Code of 1881, § 46. 
Adams v. Kelly, 5 P., 6o1. 2 W. T., 263. McCormick v. Blanchard, 7 Or., 232. 
§ 149. [ 133a.] Time run deemed part of time prescribed. When
a limitation, or a period of time prescribed in any existing statute for
acquiring a right or barring a remedy has begun to run before this code
takes effect, and the same or any other limitation is prescribed in this 
code, the time which is run shall be deemed part of the time prescribed
as such limitation.-Code of 1881, § 1683. 
FORMS OF ACTIONS AND PARTIES THICRETO. 
I 150. Common law rules of decision. 
i! 151. But one form of action. 
i! 152. Parties how designated. 
i! 153. Action to be in name of party in interest. 
i! 154. Executors or others may sue in their
own names. 
f 155. When husband and wife must join. 
i! 156. When they may join. 
i! 157. When widow and children may sue. 
i! 1,58. Parent or guardian may sue. 
i! 159. Parent may sue for seduction of daugh-
ter. 
l 16o. Woman may sue for her cwn seduction. 
i! 161. Appointment of guardians ad /item. 
i! 162. All persons interested must be parties. 
i! 163. When one party may sue for several. 
CHAPTER XV. 
i! 164. Actions by assignccs--Counter claim in
such cases. 
! 165. Persons severally liable may be sued
severally or jointly. 
i 166. Disability or death not to abate action. 
i! 167, Action for personal injury surviYes to
widow or child. 
i 168. Action for purchase price of land­
Parties. 
i 169. Courts may determine rights of all
parties. 
i 170. New party must be summoned. 
i! 171. Substitution of claimant of personal
property. 
i 172. Parties to actions of interpleadcr. 
i 173. Plaintiff may deposit disputed property. 
, i 174. Court may protect interest of all claim­
ants. 
i 175. Parties interested may intervene. 
i 176. Proceedings in Intervention. 
§ 150. [108.] Common law rules of decision. The common law, so
far as it is not inconsistent with the constitution and laws of the United 
States, or of the state of Washington, nor incompatible with the institu­
tions and condition of society in this state, shall be the rule of decision in 
all the courts of this state.-Laws of 1891, p. 31, § 1. Code of 1881, § 1. 
Wagner v. Law, 28 P. 1110; 2 W. 500. Sayward v. Carlson, 23 P. 830; 1 W. 40. 
Phelps v. S.S. City of Panama, 1 W. T. 518. Smith v. Wingard, 3 W. T. 
291; 13 P. 717. 
§ 151. [roo.] But one form of action. There shall be in this territory
hereafter but one form of action for the enforcement or protection of pri­ 
vate rights and the redress of private wrongs, which shall be called a
civil action.-Code of ·1881, § 2. 
W. Iron W'ks v. Jansen, 28 P. 1019; 3 W. s84. Garrison v. Cheeney, 1 W. T. 
48g. Thompson v. Caton, 3 W. T. 31; 13 P. 186. Parker v. Dacres, 24 P. 
192; 2 W. T. 439. 
§ 152. [110.] Parties how designated. The party commencing the
action shall be known as the plaintiff, and the opposite party the defend­ 
ant.-Code of 1881, § 3. 
§ 153. [134.] Action to be in name of party in interest. Every ac­
tion shall be prosecuted in the name of the real party in · interest, except 
as is otherwise provided by law.-Code of 1881, § 4. 
Box v. Kelse, 31 P. 973; 5 W. Hawkins v. Front St. Cable Co., 28 P. 1021; 3 W. 
5g6. Washburn v. Case, 1 W. T. 253. McDaniel v. Pressler, 29 P. 209; 3 W. 
638. Jack Gho v. Julles, 1 W. T. 325. Slauson v. Schwabacher, 4. W. 784.
31 P. 329. 
§ 154. [135.] E~ecutors or others may sue in their own name. An
executor or administrator, or guardian of a minor or person of unsound 
mind, a trustee of an express trust, or a person authorized by statute,
may sue without joining the person for whose benefit the suit is prose­
cuted. A trustee of an express trust, within the meaning of this section,
shall be construed to include a person with whom or in whose name a
contract is madefor the benefit of another.-Code of 1881, § 5. 
§ 155. [136.] When husband and wife must join. When a married
woman is a party, her husband must be jomed with her, except,- 
1. When the action concerns her separate property, or her right or
claim to the homestead property, she may sue alone. 
2. When the action is between herself and her husband, she may sue
or be sued alone. 
3. When she is living separate and apart from her husband, she may
sue or be sued alone. -Code of 1881, § 6. 
Hawkins v. Front St. Cable Co., 28 P. 1021; 3 W. 5g6. 
§ 156. [137.] When they may join. Husband and wife may join in
all causes of action arising from injuries to the person or character of 
either or both of them, or from injuries to the property of either or both
of them, or arising out of any contract in favor of either or both of them,
or arising out of any contract in favor of either or both of them. If a
husband and wife be sued together, the wife may defend for her own
right, and if the husband neglect to defend, she may defend for his right
also. And she may defend in all cases in which she is interested, whether
she is sued with her husband or not.-Code of 1881, § 7. 
§ 157. [138.] When widow and children may sue. The widow, or
widow and her children, or child or children if no widow, of a man killed
in a duel, shall have a right of action against the person killing him, and 
against the seconds and all aiders and abettors, When the death of a
person is caused by the wrongful act or neglect. of another, his heirs or
personal representatives may maintain an action for damages against the
person causing the death ; or when the death of a person is caused by an
injury received in falling through any opening or defective place in any
sidewalk, street, alley, square, or wharf, his heirs or personal representa­
tives may maintain an action for damages against the person whose duty
it was, at the time of the injury, to have kept in repair such sidewalk or
other place. In every such action the jury may give such damages,
pecuniary or exemplary, as under all circumstances of the case may to
them seem just.-Code of 1881, § 8. 
Graetz v. McKenzie, 28 P. 331; 3 W. 194. Hedrick v. Ry. Co., 30 P. 714; 4 W.
400. Klepsch v. Donald 30 P. 991; 4 W. 436. N. P. Ry. Co. v. Ellison, 28 
P. 333; 29 P. 263; 3 W. 225. Dahl v. Tibbals, 31 P. 868; 5 W. 
§ 158. [139.J Parent or guardian may sue. A father, or in case of
the [his] death or desertion of his family the mother, may maintain an action
as plaintiff for the injury or death of a child, and a guardian for the in­ 
jury or death of his ward.-Code of 1881, § 9. 
Hedrick v. Ry. Co., 30 P., 714, 4 W., 400. 
§ 159. [140.] Parent may sue for seduction of daughter. A father,
or in case of his death or desertion of his family the mother, may main­ 
tain an action as plaintiff for the seduction of a daughter, and the guard­
ian for the seduction of a ward, though the daughter or ward be not liv­
ing with or in the service of the plaintiff at the time of the seduction or
afterwards, and there be no loss of service.-Code of 1881, § 10. 
§ 16o. [ 141.] Womaamay sue for her own seduction. An unmar­
ried female over twenty-one years of age may maintain an action as 
plaintiff for her own seduction, and recover therein such damages as may 
he assessed in her favor; but the prosecution of an action to judgment
by the father, mother, or guardian, as prescribed in the preceding section
shall be a bar to an action by such unmarried female.-Code of 1881, § 
I I. 
§ 161. [142.] Appointment of guardians ad litem. When an infant
is a party he shall appear by guardian, or if he bas no guardian, or in
the opinion of the court the guardian is an improper person, the court
shall appoint one to act. Said guardian shall be appointed as follows :- 
1. When the infant is plaintiff, upon the application of the infant, if
he be of the age of fourteen years, or if under that age, upon the appli­
cation of a relative or friend of the infant. 
2. When the infant is defendant, upon the application of the infant, if
be be of the age of fourteen years, and apply within thirty days after the
service of the summons ; if be be under the age of fourteen, or neglect
to apply, then upon the application of any other party to the action, or of
a relative or friend of the infant.-Laws of 1891, p. 69, § 1. 
§ 162. [143.J All persons interested must be parties. All persons
interested in the cause of action, or necessary to the complete determina­
tion of the question involved, shall, unless otherwise provided by law, 
be joined as plaintiffs when their interest is in common with the party 
making the complaint, and as defendants when their interest is adverse to
the plaintiff; provided, that where good cause exists, which shall be made
to appear in the complaint, why a party who should be a plaintiff cannot,
from a want of consent on his part or otherwise, be made such plaintiff,
he shall be made a defendant.-Code of 1881, § 13. 
Prouty v. Prouty, 29 P., 1040. 4 W. 174. Harrington v. Miller, 31 P. 325. 4 W.,
8o8. Madison v. Madison, I W. T., 6o. Weisbach v. Arnold, 3 W. T., 111. 
13 P. 417. 
§ 163. [144.] When one party may sue 'for several. When the
question is one of common or general interest to many persons, or where
the parties are numerous, and it is impracticable to bring them all before
the court, one or more may sue or defend for the benefit of the whole.­
Code of 1881, § 14. 
§ 164. [145.] Action by assignees-Counter claim in such cases. 
Any assignee or assignees of any judgment, bond, specialty, book-ac­
count, or other chose in action, for the payment of money by assignment
in writing, signed by the person authorized to make the same, may, by
virtue of such assignment, sue and maintain an action or actions in his
or her name, against the .obligor or obligors, debtor or debtors, therein
named, notwithstanding the assignor may have an interest in the thing
assigned ; provt'ded, that any debtor may plead in defense a counterclaim
or an offset, if held by him against the original owner, against the debt
assigned, save that no counterclaim or offset shall be pleaded against nego­
tiable paper assigned before due, and where the holder thereof has pur­
chased the same in good faith and for value, and is the owner of all interest
therein.-Laws of 1891, p. 69, § 2, 
McDaniel v. Pressler, 29 P. 209., 3 W. 638. Rice v. Yakima, etc., Ry. Co. 31 P.
23, 4 W. 724. 
§ 165. [146.] Persons severally liable may be sued severally or
jointly. Persons severally liable upon the same obligation or instrument 
including the parties to bills of exchange and promissory notes, may all,
or any of them, be included in the same action, at the option of the
plaintiff.-Code of 1881, § 16. 
§ 166. [147.] Disability or death not to abate action. No action
shall abate by the death, marriage or other disability of the party, or by the
transfer of any interest therein, if the cause of action survive or continue ; 
but the court may at any time within one year thereafter, on motion,
allow the action to be continued by or against his representatives or suc­
cessors in interest. -Code of 1881, § 17. 
Box v. Kelse, 31 P. 973. 5 W. 
§ 167. [148.] Action forpersonalinjurysurvivestowidoworchild. 
No action for a personal injury to any person occasioning bis death shall
abate, nor shall such right of action determine by reason of such death
if he have a wife or child living, but such action may be prosecuted, or
commenced and prosecuted, in favor of such wife, or in favor of the wife
and children, or if no wife, in favor of such child or chiltlren.--Code of
1881, § 18. 
§ 168. [149.] Action for purchase price of land-Parties. In any
action brought for the recovery of the purchase money against any person 
holding a contract for the purchase of lands, the party bound to perform 
the contract, if not the plaintiff, may be made a party, and the court in a
final judgment may order the interest of purchaser to be sold or transferred
to the plaintiff upon such terms as may be just, and may also order a
specific performance of the contract in favor of the complainant, or the
purchaser in case a sale be ordered.-Code of 1881, § 19. 
§ 169. [150.] Courts may determine rights of all parties. The
court may determine any controversy between parties before it when it 
can be done without prejudice to the rights of others, or by saving their
rights; but when a complete determination of the controversy can­
not be had without the presence of other parties, the court shall cause
them to be brought in. -Code of 1881, § 20. 
§ 170. [151.] New party must be summoned. When a new par­
ty is introduced into an action as a representative or successor of a former 
party, such new party is entitled to the same summons, to be served in
the same manner, as required for defendants in the commencement of
an action.-Code of 1881, § 2 r. 
§ 171. [152.] Substitution of claimant of personal property 
A defendant against whom an action is pending upon a contract, or for
specific, real or personal property at any time before answer, upon affida­
vit that a person not a party to the action, and without collusion with him,
makes against him a demand for the same debt of property, upon due notice
to such person and the adverse party, may apply to the court for an or­
der to substitute such person in his place, and discharge him from liabil­
ity to either party on his depositing in court the amount of the debt, or
delivering the property or its value to such person as the· court may
direct; and the court may in its discretion make the order. Code of 
1881, § 22. 
§ 172. [153.] Parties to action of interpleader. Any one having in
his possession, or under his control, any property or money, or being in­
debted, where more than one person claims to be the owner of, entitled 
to, interested in, or to have a lien on such property, money, or indebted-·
ness, or any part thereof, may commence an action in the superior court 
against all or any of such persons, and have their rights, claims, interest or 
liens adjudged, determined, and adjusted in such action. Laws of 1889- 
90, p. 93, § I. 
§ 173. [154.] Plaintiff may deposit disputed property. In all ac­
tions commenced under the preceding section, the plaintiff may disclaim 
any interest in the money, property, or indebtedness, and deposit with
the clerk of the court the full amount of such money or indebtedness, or
other property, and he shall not be liable for any costs accruing in. said
action. And the clerks of the various courts shall receive and file such
complaint, and all other officers shall execute the necessary processes to
carry out the purposes of this act, free from all charge to said plaintiff,
and the court, in its discretion, shall determine the liability for costs of 
the action.-Laws of 1889-90, p. 93, § 2.
This act consists of ij 17:z.r74. 
§ 174. [ 155.] Court to protect interest of all claimants. Either of
the defendantq may set up or show any claim or lien he may have to such 
property, money, or indebtedness, or any part thereof, and the superior
right, title, or lien, whether legal or equitable, shall prevail. The court,
or judge thereof, may make all necessary orders, during the pendency of 
said action, for the preservation and protection of the rights, interests, or
liens of the several parties.-Laws of 1889-90, p. 94, § 3. 
§ 175. [156.] Parties interested may intervene. Any person may,
before the trial, intervene in an action or proceeding, who bas an· interest
in the matter in litigation, in the success of either party, or an interest 
against both. An intervention takes place when a third person is per­
mitted to become a party to au action or proceeding between other persons,
either by joining the plaintiff in claiming what is sought by the com­
plaint, or by uniting with the defendant in resisting the claims of the
plaintiff, or by demanding anything adversely to both the plaintiff and
the defendant, and is made by a complaint setting forth the grounds up­
on which the intervention rests, filed by leave of the court or judge on
the ex parte motion of the party desiring to intervene.-Code of 1881, § 
23: 
Thompson v. Huron Lumber Co., 30 P. 741; 4 W. 6o5. Langert v. Brown, 3 W.
T. 102; 13 P. 704. Hom v. Volcano Water Co., 13 Cal. 62. 
§ 176. [157.] Proceedings in intervention. When leave is giv­
en to intervene, a copy of the intervenor's complaint shall be served upon
the parties to the action or proceedings who have not appeared, or publi­ 
cation of a notice of the intervention containing a brief statement of the
nature of the intervenor's demand shall be made in all cases where there
are absent or non-resident defendants. The notice shall be published in
the same manner and for the same length of time as prescribed in this act
for publication of summons, and the complaint shall also be served up­
on the attorneys of the parties who have appeared, who may answer or
demur to it as if it were an original complaint. The· court shall deter­
mine upon the rights of the intervenor at the same time the action is de­
cided, and if the claim of the party intervening is not sustained, he shall
pay all costs incurred by the intervention; provided, that no intervention
shall be cause for delay in the trial of an action between the original par­
ties thereto beyond the term to which the action is brought.-Code of 
1881, § 24. 
Thompson v. Huron Lumber Co., 4 W. 6o6; 30 P. 741. 
i,.I.,.,. Action must be brought in county where
subject is situated. 
f 178. Actions commenced where cause arose. 
i 179. Actions against corporations wherever
process can be served. 
i 18o. In other cases where defendant resides. 
i 181. If not begun in proper county may pro­
ceed unless defendant objects. 
i 182. Grounds for change of venue. 
CHAPTER XVI. 
VENUE OF ACTIONS. 
i 183. 
i 184. 
~ 185. 
i 186. 
e 187. 
i 188. 
e 189. 
If changed must he to proper county
But one allowed-Except 
Change to newly created county.
Transmission of record-Costofchange.
May be changed by stipulation.
Delay in transmission may defeat 
change.
When change is comptete. 
Record entries to be included in tran­
script 
§ 177. [158.] Action must be brought in county where subject is
situated. Actions for the following causes shall be commenced in the
county or district in which the subject of the action, or some part thereof,
is situated:- 
1. For the recovery of, for the possession of, for the partition of, for
the foreclosure of a mortgage on, or for the determination of all questions
affecting the title or for any injuries to real property; 
2. All questions involving the right to the possession or title to any
specific article of personal property; in which last-mentioned class of
cases damages may also be awarded for the detention and for injury to
such personal property.--Code of 1881, § 47. _ 
McLeod v. Ellis, 26 P., 77, 2 W., 117. Morgan v. Bell, 28 P., 925, 3 W. 554.
City of North Yakima v. Sup. Ct. King Co., 30 P., 1053. 4 W., 655. Wood
v. Mastick, 2 W. T., 64, 3 P., 612. Stiles v. James, 2 W. T., 1941 2 P. 188.
State v. Supr. Ct. Pierce Co., 32 P. 553. 5 W. -. 
§ 178. [159.J Action commenced where cause arose. Actions for
the following cases shall be tried in the district or county where the cause,
or some part thereof, arose :- 
1. For the recovery of a penalty or forfeiture imposed by statute ; 
2. Against a public officer, or person specially appointed to execute
bis duties, for an act done by him in virtue of his office, or against a per­
son who, by his command or in his aid, shall do anything touching the
duties of such officer.-Code of 1881, § 48. 
McLeod v. Ellis, 26 P., 77', 2 W., 117. 
§ 179. [ 16o.] Actions against eorporations wherever process can
be served. An action against a coporation may be brought in any 
county where the corporation has an office for the transaction of business,
or any person resides upon whom process . may be served against such
corporation, unless otherwise provided in this code.-Code of 1881, § 49. 
North Yakima v, Supr. C. King Co. 30 P., 1053, 4 W., 655. 
§ 180. [161.J In other cases where defendant resides. In all other
cases the action must be tried in the county in which the defendants, or 
some of them, reside at the time of the commencement of the action, or
may be served with process, subject, however, to the power of the court
to change the place of trial as provided in sections one hundred and six­
ty-two and one hundred and sixty-three of this code.-Laws of 1891, p. 
71, § I. 
Kennedy v. Derrickson, 31 P., 766., 5 W. -. 
§ 181. [ 162.] If not begun in proper county may proceed unless
defendant objects. If the county in which the action is commenced is not 
the proper county for the trial thereof, the action may, notwithstanding,
be tried therein, unless the defendant, at the time he appears and demurs
or answers, files an affidavit of merits, and demands that the trial be had
in the proper county.-Laws of 1891, p. 71, § 1. 
Kennedy v. Derrickson, 31 P. 766; 5 W. -. McLeod v. Ellis, ~6 P. 77; 2 W.
117. State v. Sup'r Ct. King Co., 32 P. 457; 5 W. 
§ 182. [163.J Grounds for change of venue. The court may, on
motion, in the following cases, change the place of trial, when it appears
by affidavit or other satisfactory proof,- 
1. That the county designated in the complaint is not the proper coun­
ty; or 
2. That there is reason to believe that an impartial trial cannot be had
therein; or 
3. That the convenience of witnesses or the ends of justice would be
forwarded by the change ; or · 
\ 
4. That from any cause the judge is disqualified; which disqualification
exists in either of the following cases: In an action or proceeding to
which he is a party, or in which he is interested; when he is related to
either party by consanguinity or affinity, within the third degree; when he
has been counsel for either party in the action or proceeeding.-Code of 
1881, § 51. 
State v. Sachs, 29 P. 446; 3 W. 6g5. Ward v. Moorey, I W. T. 104. 
§ 183. [164.] If changed must be to proper county-But one al­
lowed-Except. If the motion for a change of the place of trial be al­
lowed, the change shall be made to the county or district where the action 
ought to have been commenced, if it be for the cause mentioned in subdi­
vision one of section fifty-one, [ 182] and in other cases to the most conven­
ient county where the cause alleged does not exist. Neither party shall be
entitled to more than one change of the place of trial, except for causes
not in existence when the first change was allowed.-Code of 1881, § 52. 
~ 184. [165.] Change to newly created county. Any party in a
civil action pending in the superior court in a county out of whose limits
a new county, in whole or in part, has been created, may file with the 
clerk of such superior court an affidavit setting forth that he is a resident
of such newly created county, and that the venue of such action is trans­
itory, or that the venue of such action is local, and that it ought properly
to be tried in such newly created county; and thereupon the clerk shall
make out a transcript of the proceedings already had in such action in
such superior court, and certify it under the seal of the court, and trans­
mit such transcript, together with the papers on file in his office connected
with such ·action, to the clerk of the superior court of such newly created
county, wherein it shall be proceeded with as in other cases.-Laws of 
1891, p. 72, § 2. 
§ 185. [166.] Transmission of record-Cost of change. When an
order is made transferring an action or proceeding for trial, the clerk of 
the court must transmit the pleadings and papers therein to the court to
which it is transferred. The costs and fees thereof, and of filing the pa­
pers anew, must be paid by the party at whose instance the order was
made, except in the cases mentioned in subdivision one, section fifty-one, 
[182] in which case the plaintiff shall pay costs of transfer. The court to
which an action or proceeding is transferred has and exercises over the
same the like jurisdiction as if it had been originally commenced therein. 
-Code of 1881, § 54. 
§ 186. [167.] May be changed bf etipulation. Notwithstanding
the provisions ot section· fifty-one [182J all the parties to the action by
stipulation in writing or by consent in open court entered in the records 
may agree that the place of trial be changed to any county or district
in the territory, and thereupon the court must order the change agreed 
upon.-Code of 1881, § 55.
§ 187. [168.] Delay in transmission may defeat change. If such 
papers be not transmitted to the clerk of the proper court within the
time prescribed in the order allowing the change, and the delay be caused
by the act or omission of the party procuring the change, the adverse
party, on motion to the court or judge thereof, may have the order 
vacated, and thereafter no other change of the place of trial shall be al­
lowed to such party. -Code of 1881, § 56. 
~ 188. [169.J When change is complete. Upon the filing of the pa­
pers with the clerk of the court to which the cause is transferred, the 
change of venue shall be deemed complete, and thereafter the action shall
proceed as though it had been commenced in that court.-Codeof 1881, § 57. 
§ 189. [170.J Record entries to be included in transcript. The
clerk of the court must also transmit with the original papers, where an 
order is made changing the place of trial, a certified transcript of all record
entries up to and including the order for such change.-Code of 1881, § ,c;8. 
MANNER OF COMMICNCING CIVIL ACTIONS.* 
i 190. Actions commenced by service of sum­
mons. 
i 191. Summons to be subscribed byplaintiff''s
attorney. 
i 192. What summons shall contain. 
i 193. Form of summons. 
i 194. Complainttobeservedor filed-Require-
menta if filed only. 
i 195. Who may serve summons. 
i 1g6. SummoDB-How served. 
i 197. How served on corporations. 
I 1g8. When to be served by publication. 
CHAPTER XVII. 
i 199. In what paper to be published-Six
weeks. 
§ 190. Action commenced by service of summons. Ci vii actions in
the several superior courts of this state shall be commenced by the service
of a summons, as hereinabove provided.-Laws of 1893, p. 407, § 1. 
Bell v. Olmsted, 18 Wis., 75. Coffman v. Brandhoefer, 33 Neb., 279, 50N. W. 6.
NoTR: As to statute of limitations, see § 137. Allen v. Marshall, 24 Cal., 166. 
§ 191. Summons to be subscribed by plaintiff's attorney. The
summons must be subscribed by the plaintiff or his attorney, and directed
to the defendant requiring him to answer the complaint, and serve a copy 
of his answer on the person whose name is subscribed to the summons, at
a place within the state therein specified in which there is a postoffi.ce,
within twenty days after the service of the summons, exclusive of the day 
of service.-Laws of 1893, p. 407, § 2. 
Mezchen v. Moore, 54 Wis., 214., II N. W., 534. 
i 200. Personal service out of the state-sixty
days. 
i :IOI. Uni~ personally served party may de­
fend within one year-Except, etc. 
i 302. Proceedings when only part of defend­
anta served. 
~ :IIOJ. Proof of service. 
i 204. Service of summons gives jurisdiction­
Voluntary appearance equivalent. 
i 205. What constitutes appearance. 
i 206. Notice of pendency of action. 
§ 192. What summons shall contain. The summons shall also con·
tain :- 
1. The title of the cause, specifying the name of the court in which the
action is brought, the name of the county designated by the plaintiff as
the place of trial, and the names of the parties to the action, plaintiff and
defendant. 
2. A direction to the defendants summoning them to appear within
twenty days after service of the summons, exclusive of the day of service,
and defend the action. 
· 3. A notice that, in case of failure so to do, judgment will be rendered
against them, according to the demand of the complaint. It shall be sub­
scribed by the plaintiff, or his attorney, with the addition of his postoffice
address, at which the papers in the action may be served on him by mail.
There may, at the option of the plaintiff, be added at the foot, when the
complaint is not served with the summons, and the only relief sought is
the recovery of (the] money, whether upon tort or contract, a brief notice
specifying the sum to be demanded by the complaint.-Laws of 1893, 
p. 407, § 3· 
NOTE: This section is copied from section 2630 of Sanborn and Berryman's
statutes of Wisconsin. 
Ralph v. Lomer, 28 P., 76o, 3 W. 401. Zwickey v. Haney, ·63 Wis., 464, 23 N.
W., 577. Fond du Lac v. Bonested, 22 Wis., 251. Gundry v. Whittlesey, 
19 Wis., 227. 
§ 193. Form of summons. Such summons shall be substantially in
the following form :- 
........................... Court, County.
A B, Plaintiff, 1 
vs. (
CD, Defendant. J 
The State of Washington , to the said , defendant:
You are hereby summoned to appear within twenty days after service 
of this summons, exclusive of the day of service, and defend the above
entitled action in the court aforesaid; and in case of your failure so to do,
judgment will be rendered against you, according to the demand of the
complaint, which will be filed with the clerk of said court, or a copy of
which is herewith served upon you. 
Plaintiff's Attorney. 
P. 0. Address, County, Wash. 
-Laws of 1893, p. 407, § 4· 
EF. 
NoTB: This section is taken from section 2631 of Sanborn and Berryman's
statutes of Wisconsin. 
§ 194. Complaint to be served or filed-Requirements if filed
only. A copy of the complaint must be served upon the defendant with
the summons unless the complaint itself be filed in the office of the clerk 
of the superior court of the county in which the action is commenced
within five days after service of such summons, in which case the service
of the copy may be omitted; but the summons in such case must notify
the defendant that the complaint will be filed with the clerk of said. court;
and if the defendant appear within ten days after the service of the sum­
mons, the plaintiff must serve a copy of the complaint on the defendant or
his attorney within ten days after the notice of such appearance and the
defendant shall have at least ten days thereafter to answer the same; and
no judgment shall be entered against him for want of an answer in such
case till the expiration of the time.-Laws of 1893, p. 408, § 5. 
§ 195. Who may serve summons. In all cases, except when service
is made by publication, as hereinafter provided, the summons shall be 
served by the sheriff of the county wherein the service is made or by his
deputy, or by any person over twenty-one years of age, who is competent
to be a witness in the action other than the plaintiff.-Laws of 1893, p. 
408, § 6. 
§ 196. Summons-Bow served. The summons shall be served by
delivering a copy thereof, as follows: 
1. If the action be against any county in the state, to the county audi­
tor; if against the state to the governor.* 
2. If against any town or incorporated city in the state, to the mayor
thereof. 
3. If against a school district to the clerk thereof.
4. If against a railroad corporation, to any station, freight, ticket, or 
other agent thereof within this state.
5. If against a corporation owning or operating sleeping cars, or hotel 
cars, to any person having charge of any of its cars or any agent found
within the state. 
6. If against any insurance company, to any agent authorized by such
company to solicit insurance within this state. 
7. If against a company or corporation doing any express business, to
any agent authorized by said company or corporation to receive and de­
liver express matters and collect pay therefor within this state. 
8. If the suit be agafnst a company or corporation, other than those
designated in the preceding subdivisions of this section, to the president
or other head of the company or corporation, secretary, cashier, or man­ 
aging agent thereof ..
9. If the suit be against a foreign corporation or non-resident joint 
stock company, or association, doing business within this state, to any
agent, cashier or secretary thereof. 
10. If against a minor under the age of fourteen years, to such minor
personally, and also to his father, mother, guardian, or if there be none
within this state, then to any person having the care or control of such
minor, or with whom he resides, or in whose service he is employed, if
such there be. 
11. If against any person for whom a. guardian has been appointed for
any cause, then to such guardian. 
12. In all other cases, to the defendant personally, or by leaving a copy
of the summons at the house of his usual abode with some person of suit-
able age and discretion then resident therein. . · 
Service made in the modes provided in this section shall be taken and
held to be personal service.-Laws of 1893, p. 408, § 7· 
Downs v. Directors School District, 30 P., 147; 4 W., 309. Waterman v. Phin­
ney, I W. T., 415. Paxton v. Daniell, 23 P., 441; 1 W., 19. Wash. Mill Co.
v. Kinnear, 1 W. T., 99. Baker v. Prewitt, 3 W. T., 595; 19 P., 149. Knoff 
v. Puget Sound Colony, 24 P., 27; I W., 57. Ingersol v. Mangom, 84
·N. Y., 622. 
§ 197. Bow served on corporations. Whenever any corporation,
created by the laws of this state, or late Territory of Washington, does 
not have an officer in this state upon whom legal service of process can be
made, an action or proceeding against such corporation may be commenced
in any county where the cause of action may arise, or said corpora­
tion may have property, and service may be made upon such corpora- 
tion by depositing a copy of the summons, writ, or other process, in the
office of the secretary of state, which shall be taken, deemed and treated
as personal service on such corporation: Provided, A copy of said. sum­
mons, writ, or other process shall be deposited in the postoffice, postage
paid, directed to the secretary or other proper officer of such corporation,
at the place where the main 
business of such corporation is transacted,
when such place of business is known to the plaintiff, and be published at
least once· a week for six weeks in some newspaper printed and published
at the seat of government of this state, before such service shall be deemed
perfect.-Laws of 1893, p. 409, § 8. 
I 
§ 198. When to be served by publication. When the defendant
cannot be found within the state, of which the return of the sheriff of the 
county in whichthe action is brought, that the defendant cannot be found
in the county, is prima fade evidence, and upon the filing of an affidavit
of the plaintiff, bis agent or attorney, with the clerk of the court, stating
that he believes that the defendant is not a resident of the state, or cannot
be found therein, and that he has deposited a copy of the summons and
complaint in the postoffice, directed to the defendant at his place of resi­
dence, unless it is stated in the affidavit that such residence is not known
to the affiant, and ·stating the existence of one of the cases hereinafter
specified, the service may be made by publication of the summons, by the
plaintiff or bis attorney in either of the following cases: 
1. When the defendant is a foreign corporation and has property within
the state. · 
2. When the defendant, being a resident of this state, has departed
therefrom with the intent to defraud his creditors, or to avoid the service
of a summons, or keeps himself concealed therein with a like intent. · 
3. When the defendant is not a resident of the state, but has property
therein and the court has jurisdiction of the subject of the action. 
4. When the action is for divorce in the cases prescribed by law.
5. When the subject of the action is real or personal property in this 
state, and the defendant has or claims a lien or interest, actual or contin­
gent, therein, or the relief demanded consists wholly, or partly, in ex­
cluding the defendant from any interest or lien therein. 
6. When the action is to foreclose, satisfy, or redeem from a mortgage,
or to enforce a lien of any kind on real estate in the county where the
action is brought, or satisfy or redeem from the same. 
7. When the action is against any corporation, whether private or
municipal, organized under the laws of this state and the proper officers
on whom to make.service do not exist or cannot be found.-Laws of 1893, 
p. 410, § 9. 
Paxton v. Daniell, 23 P., 441; I W., 19. Sayward v. Carlson, 23 P., 830; 1 W.,
40. Pennoyer v. Neff, 95 U.S., 714- 
§ 199. In what paper to be published-Six weeks. The publica­
tion shall be made in a newspaper printed and published in the county
where the action is brought, (and if there be no newspaper in the county, 
then in a newspaper printed and published in an adjoining county, and if
there is no such newspaper in an adjoining county, then in a newspaper
printed and published at the capital of the state) once each week for six
consecutive weeks; and the service of the summons shall be deemed com­
plete at the expiration of the time prescribed for publication as aforesaid. 
-Laws of 1893, p. 4u, § 10. 
• Market Bank v. Pacific National Bank, 8g N. Y., 397. Grewell v. Henderson,
5 Cal., 465. 
NOTE: The two following sections from the law of 18g1 regarding service of
summons are here inserted as some of their provisions may not be super­
seded by the act of 18g3. 
[175.J In case service of summons cannot be made as provided in the last preced­
ing section, by reason of the absence of the defendant, the summons may be served
by publication thereof in a weekly newspaper printed and published in.the county
in which the court is held, and of general circulation in that county, or if there be
no such newspa~r printed and published in that county, then in a newspaper
printed and pubhshed in the state and of general circulation in such county. The
summons published shall set forth the name of the court in which the action is com­
menced, the names of the parties, plaintiff' and defendant, a brief statement of the
nature and object of the action, and a notice to the defendant that he is required to
appear and answer the complaint within sixty days from the day of the first publi­
cation, which day shall be stated in the summons. Immediately after the first pub­
lication of the summons, the plaintiff' shall cause a copy of the summons and com­
plaint to be deposited in the postoffice, the postage thereon being prepaid, directed
to the defendant at his place of residence, unless it shall appear that such place of
residence is not known to the plaintiff' and cannot by reasonable diligence be ascer­
tained by him or his attorney; and before the hearing of the action, the court or
judge shall be satisfied by affidavit or other proof that service could not be made as
provided in the last preceding section because of the absence of the defendant, and
that all the provisions of this section have been complied with.-Laws of 18g1, p. 
IOI, ~ 5,
(176.] Whenever it shall appear by the return of the sheriff or his deputy, or the 
person ap~inted to serve a summons, that he has not served it upon the defendant,
the plaintiff may have another summons issued, and so on until service be had, or
the plaintiff' may proceed bv publication in the manner herein before provided at his
election.-Laws of 1891, p. 102, ~ 6. 
§ 200. Personal service out of the state-Sixty days. Personal
service on the defendant out of the state shall be equivalent to service 
by publication, and the defendant shall be required to appear and answer
within sixty days after such service.-Laws of 1893, p. 4II, ~ II. 
Jenkins v. Fabey, 73 N. Y. 355. 
§ 201. Unless personally served party may defend within one
year-Except, etc. If the summons is not served personally on the de­
fendant in the cases provided in the last two sections be or bis representa­
tives, on application and sufficient cause shown, at any time before judg­
ment, shall be allowed to defend the action and, except in an action for
divorce, the defendant or his representative may in like manner be allowed
to defend after judgment, and within one year after the rendition of such
judgment, on such terms as may be just; and if the defense is successful,
and the judgment, or any part thereof, bas been collected or otherwise en­
forced, such restitution may thereupon be compelled as the court directs. ·
*But the title to property sold upon execution issued on such judgment
to a purchaser in good faith shall not be thereby affected.-Laws of 1893, 
p. 411, § 12. Code of 1881, § 67. 
Sander-Bowman Co. v. Yesler's Est., 2 W. 433; 27 P. 26g. 
§ 202. Proceedings when only part of defendants served. When
the action is against two or more defendants and the summons is served
on one or more but not on all of them, the plaintiff may proceed as fol­
lows: 
I. If the action is against the defendants jointly indebted upon a con­
tract, he may proceed against the defendants served unless the court otb- 
erwise directs ; and if he recovers judgment it may be entered against all
the defendants thus jointly indebted so far only as it may be enforced
against the joint property of all and the separate property of the defend­
ants served. 
2. If the action is against defendants severally liable, be may proceed
against the defendants served, in the same manner as if they were the
only defendants. 
3. Though all the defendants may have been served with the summons,
judgment may be taken against any of them severally, when the plaintiff
would be entitled to judgment against such defendants if the action had
been against them alone.-Laws of 1893, p. 411, § 13. 
NOTE: This section is from the Dakota code of civil procedure, p. 29, ~ 105. The
following section from the laws of 1891 on this subject, is here inserted as some of its
provisions are different from the foregoing section. 
f177.] When the action is against two or more defendants upon a joint contract or
liability, and one or more of the defendants cannot be served, the plaintiff may pro­
ceed to judgment against the defendant or defendants served, and at any time there­
after while such judgment remains unsatisfied, the plaintiff or his attorney may have
summons issued to the defendant or defendants not served, and upon service thereof
upon such defendant or defendants, the same proceedings may be had as if he or
they had been originally served. When the action is against defendants liable sev­
erally, or jointly and severally, the plaintiff may proceed against the defendants
served in the same manner as if they were the only defendants.-Laws of 1891, p. 
102, ~ 7. 
McCoy v. Bell, 20 P. 595; 1 W. 505. See section 4¢, chapter 43. 
§ 203. Proof of Service. Proof of service shall be as follows:- 
1. If served by the sheriff or his deputy, the return of such sheriff or
his deputy indorsed upon or attached to the summons; 
2. If by any other person, his affidavit thereof indorsed upon or at-
tached to the summons; or . 
3. In case of publication, the affidavit of the printer, publisher, fore­
man, principal clerk or business manager of the newspaper showing the
same, together with a printed copy of the summons as published; or · 
4. The written admission of the defendant;
5. In case of personal service out of the state, the affidavit of the person 
making the service, sworn to before a notary public, with a seal attached,
or a clerk of a court of record. In case of service otherwise than by pub­
lication, the return, admission or affidavit must state the time, place and
manner of service.-Laws ef 1893, p. 412, § 14.· · 
Downs v. School District, 30 P., 147, 4 W., 309. Wash. Mill Co. v. Kinnear, 1
W. T., 99. Waterman v. Phinney, 1 W. T., 415. 
§ 204. Service of summons gives jurisdiction-Voluntary ap­
pearance equivalent. From the time of the service of the summons in
a civil action, the court is deemed to have acquired jurisdiction, and to
have control of all the subsequent proceedings. A voluntary appearance
of a defendant is equivalent to a personal service of the summons upon 
him.-Laws ef 1893, p. 412, § 15. 
Downs v. School District, 30 P., 147, 4 W., 309. Ingersol v. Mangam, 84 N. Y., 
622. 
§ 205. What constitutes appearance. A defendant appears in an
action when he answers, demurs, makes any application for an order
therein, or gives the plaintiff written notice of his appearance. After ap­
pearance a defendant is entitled to notice of all subsequent proceedings;
but when a defendant has not appeared, service of notice or papers in the
ordinary proceedings in an action need not be made upon him unless he 
is imprisoned for want of bail.* Every such appearance made in an ac­
tion shall be deemed a general appearance, unless the defendant in making 
the same states that the same is a· special appearance.-Laws of 1893,
p. 412, § 16. 
McCoy v. Bell, I W., 509, 20 P., 595. 
§ 2o6. Notice of pendency of action. In an action affecting the title
to real property the plaintiff, at the time of filing the complaint, or at any
time afterwards, or whenever a writ of attachment of property shall be
issued, or at any time afterwards, the plaintiff or a defendant, when he
sets up an affirmative cause of action in his answer, and demands sub­
stantive relief at the time of filing his answer, or at any time afterwards,
if the same be intended to affect real property, may file with the auditor
of each county in which the property is situated, a notice of the pendency
of the action, containing the names of the parties, the object of the ac­
tion, and a description of the real property in that county affected thereby.
From the time of the filing only shall the pendency of the action be con­
structive notice to a purchaser or encumbrancer of the property affected
thereby, and every person whose conveyance or encumbrance is subse­
quently executed or subsequently recorded shall be deemed a subsequent
purchaser or encumbrancer, and shall be bound by all proceedings taken
after the filing of such notice to the same extent as if he were a party to
the action. For the purpose of this section an action shall be deemed to
be pending from the time of filing such notice: Provided, kow~er, That
such notice shall be of no avail unless it shall be followed by the first pub­
lication of the summons, or by the personal service thereof on a defendant
within sixty days after such filing. And the court in which the said ac­
tion was commenced may, in its discretion, at any time after the action
shall be settled, discontinued or abated, on application of any person
aggrieved and on good cause shown and on such notice as shall be
directed or approved by the court, order the notice authorized in this sec­
tion to be cancelled of record, in whole or in part, by the county auditor
of any county in whose office the same may have been filed or recorded,
and such cancellation shall be made by an indorsement to that effect on
the margin of the record.-Laws of 1893, p. 412, § 17. 
§ 207. [185.] :rorms abolished-Sufficiency determined by code. 
All the forms of pleadings heretofore existing in civil actions inconsistent
with the provisions of this code are abolished, and hereafter the forms of
pleading and the rule by which the sufficiency of the pleadings is to be
determined shall be as herein prescribed.-Code ef 1881, § 73. 
Distler v. Dabney, 28 P. 335; 3 W. ~· Wash. Iron Wks. v. Jansen, 28 P. 1019;
3 W. 584. 
§ 2o8. [ 186.] Of what pleadings consist. The only pleadings on
the part of the plaintiff shall be,- 
1. The complaint; 2. The demurrer; 3. The reply.
And on the part ofthedefendant,-1. The demurrer; 2. The answer.­ 
Code of 1881, § 74. 
§ 209. [187.] Complaint, first pleading. The first pleading on the part of the plaintiff shall be the complaint.-Code of 1881, § 75. 
§ 210. [188.] Contents of complaint. The complaint shall con­
tain,- 
1. The title of cause, specifying the name of the court, the name of the
county in which the action is brought, and the name of the parties to the
action, plaintiff and defendant. 
2. A plain and concise statement of facts, constituting the cause of
action, without unnecessary repetition. 
3. A demand for the relief which plaintiff claims; if the recovery of
money or damages be demanded, the amount thereof shall be stated.­
Laws ef 1891, p. 106, § 1. 
Kerron v. Lumber Co., 24 P., 445, 1 W., 241. Frost v. Lumber Co., 28 P., 354,
915, 3 W., 241. Distler v. Dabney, 28 P., 335, 3 W., 200. Bethel v. Robin­
son, 30 P., 734, 4 W., 446. Wilt v. Buchtel, 2. W. T., 417, 7 P., 8g1. Haw­
ley v. Kennoyer, 1 W. T., 6og. Shockley v. Brown, 1 W. T., 463. Andrew v.
Kmg Co., 23 P., 409, 1 W. 46. Bel. Bay L. Co. v. Dibble, 31 P. 30, 4 W. 764.
Dexter Horton & Co. v. Long, 27 P., 571., 2 W., 435. Pencil v. Home Ins.
Co., 3 W., 485, 28 P., 1031. Renton v. St. Louis, 1 W. T., 215. Thompson
v. Caton, 3 W. T. 31; 13 P. 185. Parker v. Dacres, 24 P. 192; 2 W. T. 439.
N. P. Ry. Co. v. Whalen, 3 W. T., 452. 17 P., Sgo. U.S. v. Small, 3 W. T.,
478, 17 P., 739. Tolmie v. Dean, 1 W. T., 46, Ankeny v. Clark, 20 P., 583, 
I W., 549. Levyv. Sheehan, 23 P., 8o2.,. 3 W .. 420. 
·§ 211. [189.] Grounds of demurrer. The defendant may demur to
the complaint when it shall appear upon the face thereof either.- 
I. That the court bas no jurisdiction of the person of the defendant or
of the subject matter of the action; 
2. That the plaintiff bas no legal capacity to sue, or
3. That there is another action pending between the same parties for 
the same cause, or
4. That there is a defect of parties plaintiff or defendant, or
5. That several causes of action have been improperly united ; 
6. That the complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action; 
7. That the action has not been commenced within the time limited by
law.-Laws ef 1891, p. 106, § 2. 
§ 212 .. [190.] How specified. The demurrer may specify the grounds·
of objection in the statutory language of section seventy-seven [ 21 I] 
or the grounds may be distinctly specified ; it may be taken to the
whole complaint, or to any one of the alleged causes of action stated
therein.-Code of 1881, § 78. 
§ 213. [191.] Objection may be taken by answer, when. When
any of the matters enumerated in section seventy-seven [ 21 1] do 
not appear upon the face of the complaint, the objection may be taken by
answer.-Code of 1881, § 79. 
Harrington v. Miller, 31 P., 325, 4 W., Bro. 
§ 214. [192.] Amended complaint to be answered within time al­ 
lowed by court. If the complaint be amended, a copy thereof shall be
served on the defendant or his attorney, and the defendant shall answer
the same within such time as may be prescribed by the court; and if he
omit to do so, the plaintiff may proceed to obtain judgment as in other
cases of failure to answer.-Code of 1881, § 80. 
§ 215. [193.] If objection not taken demand waived-Except. If
no objection be taken either by demurrer or answer, the defendant shall
be deemed to have waived the same, excepting always the objection that
the court bas no jurisdiction, or that the complaint does not state facts 
sufficient to constitute a cause of action, which objection can be made at
any stage of the proceedings, either in the district or supreme court.-­
Code of 1881, § 81. 
Macintosh v. Renton, 2 W. T. 121. Lyen v. Bond, 3 W. T. 407; 19 P. 35. Ralph
v. Lomer, 28 P. 700; 3 W. 411. Harrington v. Miller, 31 P. 325; 4 W. 810.
Bank of Pa. v. Hamer, 49 Fed. 45. Livesly v. O'Brien, 28 P. 920; 3 W. 546.
Fransioli v. Brue, 29 P. 928; 4 W. 124. Brown v. Ranch, 20 P. 785; 1 W.
500. Sayward v. Carlson, 23 P. 830; I W. 30. 
§ 216. [194.] Contents of answer. The answer of the defendant
must contain,- 
1. A general or specific denial of each material allegation of the com­
plaint controverted by the defendant, or of any knowledge or information
thereof sufficient to form a belief; 
2. A statement of any new matter constituting a defense or counter­
claim, ip ordinary and concise language without repetition.-Code of 
1881, § 82. 
Penter v. Staight, 25 P. 46g; 1 W. 365. Wadhams v. Page, 25 P. 462; 1 W. 421;
Dignon v. Spurr, 28 P. 529; 3 W. 309. Sayward v. Carlson, 23 P. 830; 1 W.
29. Hanson v. Doherty, 25 P. 297; 1 W. 461. Hays v. Parker, 2 W. T. 198.
3 P. 901. Baker-Boyer Nat'l Bank v. Hughson, 31 P. 423; 5 W. -. City of
Seattle v. Buzby, 2 W. T. 25, 34; 3 P. 18o. Meeker v. Wren, 1 W. T. 73.
Roeder v. Brown, I W. T. 112. Kentworthy v. Merritt, 2 W. T. 155; 7 P.
62. ~pokane Mfg. Co. v. McChesney, 21 P. 198; I W. 612. Sayward v.
Carlson, 23 P. 830; 1 W. 30. Gammon v. Dyke, 2 W. T. 266; 5 P. 845. Dil­
lon v. Spokane Co., 3 W. T. 498; 17 P. 88g. Frost v. Lumber Co., 28 P. 354;
3 w. 241. 
§ 217. [195.] Definition of counterclaim. The counterclaim men­
tioned in the preceding section must be one existing in favor of a defend­
ant and against a plaintiff, between whom a several judgment might be 
· had in the action, and arising out of one of the following causes of ac­
tion:- 
1. A cause of action arising out of the contract or transaction set forth
in the complaint as the foundation of the plaintiff's claim, or connected
with the subject of the action. 
2. In an action arising on contract, any other cause of action arising
also on contract, and existing at the commencement of the action. 
3. The defendant may set forth by answer as many defenses and coun­
terclaims as he may have, whether they be such as have been heretofore
denominated legal or equitable, or both.· They shall each be separately
stated, and refer to the causes of action which they are intended to an­
swer, in such a manner that they may be intelligibly distinguished.--·
Code oj 1881, § 83. · 
Ryan v. Ferguson, 28 P. 910; 3 W. 368. Brown v. Bank, 8 P. 494; IO S. C. 54; 
132 U.S. 216; 2 W. T. 464. I 
§ 218. [196.] Defendant may demur to one cause and answer oth­
ers. The defendant may demur to one or more of several causes of ac­
tion stated in the complaint, and answer the residue.-Code of 1881, § 84. 
§ 219. [ 197.] Sham and frivolous answers stricken out. Sham,
frivolous, and irrelevant answers and defenses may be stricken out on mo­
tion, and upon such terms as the court may in its discretion impose.­ 
Code oj 1881, § 85.
Isaacs v. Holland, 29 P. 976; 4 W. 59. People v. McCumber, 72 Am. Dec. 520 . 
. § 220. [198.] Demurrer to answer. The plaintiff may demur to an
answer containing new matter, when it appears upon the face thereof
that such new matter does not constitute a defense or counterclaim, or he
may for like cause demur to one or more of such defenses or counter­
claims, and reply to the residue.-Code oj 1881, § 87. 
§ 221. [199.] The reply. When the answer contains new matter con­
stituting a defense or counterclaim, the plaintiff may reply to such new 
matter, denying generally or specifically each allegation controverted by
him, or any knowledge or information thereof sufficient to form a belief;
and he may allege in ordinary and concise language, without repetition,
any new matter, not inconsistent with the complaint, constituting a de­
fense to such new matter in the answer.-Code oj 1881, § 86. 
Distler v. Dabney, 28 P. 336; 3 W. 204. Davis v. Oldacres, 3 W. T. 593; 19 P.
150. Ankeny v. Clark, 20 P. 583; 1 W. 549. 
§ 222. [200.] When plainti:tr fails to plead defendant may move
for judgment. If the answer contain a statement of new matter con­
stituting a defense or counterclaim, and the plaintiff fail to reply or demur 
thereto within the time prescribed by law, the defendant may move the
court for such judgment as he is entitled to on the pleadings, and if the
case require it, he may have a jury called to assess the damages.-Code 
oj 1881, § 88. 
Port v. Parfit, 4 W., 373, 30 P., 328. 
§ 223. [201.] Demurrer to reply. The defendant may demur to any
new matter contained in the reply, when it appears upon the face thereof
that such new matter is not a sufficient reply to the facts stated in the
answer. Sham, frivolous, and irrelevant replies may be stricken out in
like manner and on the same terms as like answers and defenses.-Code 
oj 1881, § 89. 
§ 224- [202.] Court shall fix time for pleading. The court shall
establish the rules prescribing the time in which pleadings subsequent to 
the complaint shall be filed .. -Code of 1881, § 90. 
Waite v. Wingate, 30 P., 81., 4 W., 325. 
f 2:a6. When ..erlfication may be omitted.
f 225. Pleadings to be subscribed and Terified. 
§ 225. [203.] Pleadings to be subscribed and verified. Every
pleading shall be subscribed by the party or bis attorney, and except a 
demurrer, shall also be verified by the party, bis agent or attorney, to
the effect that he believes it to be true. The verification must be made
by the affidavit of the party, or if there be several parties united in inter­
est and pleading together, by one at least of such parties, if such party
be within the county and capable of making the affidavit ; otherwise the
affidavit may be made by the agent or attorney of the party. The affida­
vit may also be made by the 'agent or attorney if the action or defense be
founded on a written instrument for the payment of money only, and
such instrument be in the possession of the agent or attorney, or if all the
material allegations of the pleading be within the personal knowledge of
the agent or attorney. When the affidavit is made by the agent or attor­
ney, it must set forth the reason of bis making it. When a corporation
is a party, the verification may be made by any officer thereof, upon
whom service of a notice might be made ; and when the territory, or any
officer therof in its behalf, is a party, the verification may be made by any
person to whom all the material allegations of the pleading are known.
When the party is absent from or a non-resident of the county in which
suit is brought, the verification may be made by the agent or attor­ 
ney of said party.-Code of 1881, § 91. Laws of 1887-8, p. 29, § 1. 
§ 226. [204.] When verification may be omitted. When, in the
judgment of the court, an answer to an allegation in any pleading might
subject the party answering to a criminal prosecution, the verification of
the answer to such allegation may be omitted. No pleading shall be
used in a criminal prosecution against the party as evidence of a fact
alleged in such pleading.-Coa'e of 1881, § 92. 
i 227. Written instruments, how pleaded­
Bill of particulars. 
i 228. Pleadings liberally construed. 
i 229. Improper pleading may be stricken or
amended on motion. 
f 230, Judgments, bow pleaded. 
'VBRIFICATION OF PLEADINGS. 
f 231. Conditions precedent may be pleaded
generally. 
i 232. Private laws, how pleaded. 
CHAPTER XIX. 
CHAPTER XX. 
GENERAL RULES OF PLEADING. 
f 233. In action for libel or slander. 
i 234. Justification and mitigation. 
i 235. Title need not be pleaded in actions to
recover property dlstrained. 
i 236. Causes of action that may be joined. 
I 237. Allegations not denied deemed admit­
ted, except iu reply. 
f 238. Material allegations defined. 
§ 227. [205.] Written instruments, how pleaded-Bill of Particu­
lars. It shall not be necessary for a party to set forth in a pleading a 
copy of the instrument of writing, or the items of an account therein
alleged; but unless he file a verified copy thereof with such pleadings,
and serve the same on the adverse party, he shall, within ten days after a
demand thereof in writing, deliver to the adverse party a copy of such
instrument of writing, or the items of an account, verified by his own
oath, or that of his agent or attorney, to the effect that he believes it to
be true, or be precluded from giving evidence thereof. The court, or
judge thereof, may order a further account, when the one delivered is
defective; and the court may, in all cases, order a bill of particulars of
the claim of either party to be furnished.-Code of 1881, § 93. 
Ferry v. King Co., 26 P., 537, 2 W. 342. Isham v. Parker, 29 P., 835, 3 W·., 769. 
§ 228. [206.] Pleadings liberally construed. In the construction of
a pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegation[s] shall be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the par­ 
ties.-Code of 1881, § 94. 
Isaacs v. Holland, 29 P., 976, 4 W., 54. Chambers v. Hoover, 3 W. T., '.J0-107,
13 P., 466-905. Johnson v. Leohard, 20 P. 591, 1 W., 564. Pugit S'd Iron 
Co. v. Worthington, 2 W., 472, 7 P., 882. Renton v. St. Louis, 1 W. T., 215.
Newberg v. Farmer, I W. T., 182. Lyen v. Bond, 3 W. T., 407, 19 P., 35. 
§ 229. [207.] Improper pleading may be stricken or amended on
motion~ If irrelevant or redundant matter be inserted in a pleading, it
may be stricken out on motion of any person aggrieved thereby; and 
when the allegations of a pleading are so indefinite or uncertain that the
precise nature of the charge or defense is not apparent, the court may
require the pleading to be made definite and certain by amendment, or 
may dismiss the same. -Code of 1881, § 95. 
Bigelow v. Scott, 8 P., 494, 2 W. T., 38o. Isaacs v. Holland, 29 P., 976, 4 W., 59 .
. Lee v. Lee, 28 P., 355, 3 W., 236. Meeker, v. Gilbert, 3 W. T., 369,. 19 P. 19. 
§ 230. [2o8.] Judgments, how pleaded. In pleading a judgment or
other determination of a court or offi.ce[r] of special jurisdiction, it shall 
not be necessary to state the facts conferring jurisdiction, but such judgment
or determination may be stated to have been duly given or made. If such
allegation be cantroverted, the party pleading shall be bound to establish
on the trial the facts conferring jurisdiction.-Code of 18811 § 96. 
§ 231. [209.] Oonditions precedent may be pleaded generally. In
pleading the performance of conditions precedent in a contract, it shall
not be necessary to state the facts showing such performance, but it may 
be stated generally that the party duly performed all the conditions on
his part ; and if such allegation be controverted, the party pleading shall
be bound to establish, on the trial, the facts showing such performance. - 
Code of 1881, § 97. 
§ 232 [210.] Private laws-How pleaded. In pleading a private
statute, or a right derived therefrom, it shall be sufficient to refer to such 
statute by its title, and the day of its passage, and the court shall there­
upon take judicial notice thereof.-Code of 1881, § 98. 
§ 233. [211.] In action for libel or slander. In an action for libel or
slander, it shall not be necessary to state in the complaint any extrinsic
facts for the purpose of showing the application to the plaintiff of the de­
famatory matter out of which the cause arose, but it shall be sufficient to
state generally that the same was published or spoken concerning the 
4 . 
plaintiff; and if such allegation be controverted, the plaintiff shall be
bound to establish on trial that it was so published or spoken.-Code of 
1881, § 99· 
§ 234. [212.] Justification and mitigation. In an action mentioned
in the last section, the defendant may, in his answer, allege both the 
truth of the matter charged as defamatory, and any mitigating circum­
stances to reduce the amount of damages; and whether he prove the justi­
fication or not, he may give in evidence the mitigating circumstances.­
Code of 18811 § 100. 
§ 235. [213.] Title need not be pleaded in actions to recover prop­
erty distrained. In an action to recover the possession of property dis­ 
trained doing damage, an answer that the defendant or person by whose
command he acted was lawfully possessed of the real property upon
which the distress was made, and that the property distrained was at the
time doing the damage thereon, shall be good without setting forth the title to such real property.-Code of 1881, § 101. 
§ 236. [214.] Causes of action that may be joined. The plaintiff
may unite several causes of action in the same complaint, when they all 
arise out of, - 
1. Contract, express or implied ; or 
2. Injuries, .with or without force, to the person ; or
3. Injuries, with or without force, to property; or
4. Injuries to character; or
5. Claims to recover real property, with or without damages for the 
withholding thereof; or 
6. Claims to recover personal property, with or without damages for
the withholding thereof; or 
7. Claims against a trustee, by virtue of a contract or by operation of
law. 
But the causes of action so united must affect all the parties to the ac­
tion, and not require different places of trial, and must be separately
stated.-Code of 1881, § 102. 
Prouty v. Prouty, 29 P. 1049; 4 W. 174. 
§ 237. [215.) Allegations not denied deemed admitted, except in
reply. Every material allegation of the complaint not controverted by
the answer, and every material allegation of new matter in the answer 
not controverted by the reply, shall, for the purpose of action, be taken
as true; but the allegation of new matter in a reply is to be deemed con­
troverted by the adverse party, as upon a direct denial or avoidance, as
the case may require.-Code of 1881, § 103. 
Maxwell v. Johnson, 27 P. 1071; 2 W. 483. Frost v. Lumber Co., 28 P. 354-915;
3 W. 241. Fitzgerald v. School Dist., 31 P. 427; 5 W. -. 
§ 238. [216.] Material allegation defined. A material allegation in
a pleading is one essential to the claim or defense, and which could not 
be stricken from the pleading without leaving it insuffi.cient.-Code of 
1881, § 104. 
§ 239. [217.] Variance immaterial unlesa adverse party misled. 
No variance between the allegation in a pleading and the proof shall be
deemed material, unless it shall have actually misled the adverse party
to his prejudice in maintaining his action or defense upon the merits.
Whenever it shall be alleged that a party has been so misled, that fact
sha11 be proved to the satisfaction of the court, and in what respect he
has been misled, and thereupon the court may order the pleading to be
amended upon such terms as shall be just.-Code of 1881, § 105. 
N. P. Ry. Co. v. O'Brien, 21 P. 32; 1 W. 6oo. Carpenter v. Ritchie 28 P. 38o; 2
W. 520. Pencil v. Home Ins Co., 28 P. 1031; 3 W. 487. Johnson v. Leon­
hard, 20 P. 591; 1 W. 564. Sayward v. Carlson, 23 P. 830; I W. 30. Roe v.
Cuther, 30 P. 663; 4 W. 611. Linsley v. O'Brien, 28 P. 920; 3 W. 546. Marsh
v. Wade, I W. 545; 20 P. 578. 
§ 240. [218.] When variance immaterial amendment to be made. 
When the variance is not material, as provided in the last section, the.
court may direct the fact to be found according to the evidence, or may
order an immediate amendment without costs.-Code of 1881, § 106. 
§ 241. [219.] What is failure of proof. When, however, the allega­
tion of the cause of action or defense to which the proof is directed is not 
proved, not in some particular or particulars only, but in its entire scope
and meaning, it shall not be deemed a case of variance within the last
two sections, but a failure of proof.-Code of 1881, § 107. 
Marsh v. Wade, 20 P. 578. I W. 545. 
§ 242. [220.] Variance in action to recover personal property. 
Where the plaintiff in an action to recover the possession of personal
property, on a claim of being the owner thereof, shall fail to establish on.
trial such ownership, but shall prove that he is entitled to the possession
thereof by virtue of a special property therein, he shall not thereby be
defeated of his action, but shall be permitted, to amend on reasonable
terms, his complaint, and be entitled to judgment according to the proof
in the case.-Code of 1881, § 108. 
Silsby v. Aldridge, 23 P. 836; I W. 119. Kerron v. N. P. Mfg. Co., 24 P. 445; r
W. 243. 
§ 243. [221.] Amendments, how and when allowed-Affidavit,
terms. The court may, in furtherance of justice, and on such terms as 
may be proper, amend any pleadings, or proceedings, by adding or strik­
ing out the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of
a party, or a mistake in any other respect, and may, upon like terms, en­
large the time for answer or demurrer. The court may likewise, upon
affidavit, showing good cause therefor, after notice to the adverse party,
allow, upon such terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or 
proceeding in other particulars, and may, upon like terms, allow an an­
swer to be made after the time limited by this code, and may, upon such
terms as may be just, and upon payment of costs, relieve a party, or his
legal representatives, from a judgment, order, or other proceeding taken
against him through his mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable 
neglect.-Laws of 1891, p. I06, § 3. Code of 1881, § 109.
Williams v. Miller, 1 W. T. 88. Kerron v. N. P. L. & M. Co., 24 P. 445; 1 W. 
241. Murve v. Schwabacher, 2 W. T. 13cH91; 3 P. 27~899. Chamber v. 
Hoover, 3 W. T. ~107; 13 P. 466-go5. Skagit Ry. & Lum. Co. v. Cole, 25 
P. 1077; 2 W. 64. Myers v. Landrum, 4 W. 763; 31 P. 33. State v. Sup'r Ct.
King Co.; 29 P. 214; 3 W. 705. Balch v. Smith, 30 P. 648; 4 W. 497. Gower
v. Gower, 24 P. 29; 1 W. 17. Marston v. Humes, 28 P. 520; 3 W. 270; over­
ruling Harland v. Territory, 13 P. 453; 3 W. T. 131. Ankeny v. ~lark, 20 P. 
583; 1 W. 549. Carson v. Railsback, 3 W. T. 168; 13 P. 618. Galliher v.
Cadwell, 3 W. T. 501; 18 P. 68. Wood v. Mastick, 2 W. T. 64; 3 P. 612 
Renton v. St. Louis, 1 W. T. 215. Newberg v. Farmer, 1 W. T. 182. 
§ 244. [222.] Amended pleading must be. complete in itself. 
When any pleading or proceeding is amended before trial, mere clerical
errors excepted, it shall be done by filing a new pleading, to be called the
amended complaint, or otherwise, as the case may be. Such amended
pleading shall be complete in itself, without reference to the original, or
any preceding amended one.-Code of 1881, § 110. 
§ 245. [223.] Improper pleadings may be stricken out. Any
pleading not duly verified and subscribed may, on motion of the adverse
party, be stricken out of the case. When any pleading contains more 
than one cause of action or defense, if the same be not pleaded separate­
ly, such pleading may, on motion of the adverse party, be stricken out of
the case. When a motion to strike out is allowed, the court may, upon
such terms as may be proper, allow the party to file an amended plead­
ing ; or if the motion be disallowed, and it appear to have been made in
good faith, the court may, upon like terms, allow the party to plead over.
-Code of 18811 § 111. 
§ 246. [224.] Pictitious name may be used when true name un­ 
known. When the plaintiff shall be ignorant of the name of the defend­
ant, it shall be so stated in his pleading, and such defendant may be
designated in any pleading or proceeding by any name, and when his
true name shall be discovered, the pleading or proceeding may be
amended accordingly.-Code of 1881, § 112. 
Misnomer: Lee v. Lee, 28 P., 355, 3 W. 236. . 
§ 247. (225.] Harmless errors disregarded. The court shall, in
every stage of an action, disregard any error or defect in pleadings or 
proceedings which shall not affect the substantial rights of the adverse
party, and no judgment shall be reversed or affected by reason of such
error or defect.-Code of 1881, § 113. 
Styles v. James, 2 P. 188, 2 W. T., 194. 
§ 248. [226.] Supplemental pleadings. The court may, on motion,
allow supplemental pleadings showing facts which occurred after the for­ 
. mer pleadings were filed.-Code of 1881, § 114. 
§ 249. [228.] No arrest except as provided by law. No person
shall be arrested or held to bail in any civil action except upon the order 
of the court, where the action is brought or a judge of the supreme
court.-Code of 1881, § 115. 
§ 250. [229.] When defendant may be arrested. The defendant
may be arrested in the following cases:- 
1. In an action for the recovery of damages on a cause of action not
arising out of contract,. where the defendant is a non-resident of the
territory or is about to remove therefrom, or where the action is for an in­
jury to person or character or for injuring or for wrongfully taking, de­
taining or converting property. 
2. In an action for a fine or penalty, or on a promise to marry, or for
money received, or property embezzled, or fraudulently misapplied, or
converted to his own use, by a public officer, or by an attorney, or by an
officer or agent of a corporation in the course of his employment as such,
or by any factor, agent, broker, or other person in a fiduciary capacity; or
for any misconduct or neglect in office, or in a professional employment. 
3. In an action to recover the possession of personal property unjustly
detained, when the property, or any part thereof, has been concealed, re­
moved, or disposed of, so that it cannot be found or taken by the sheriff,
and with intent that it should not be so found or taken, or with the in­
tent to deprive the plaintiff of the benefit thereof; 
4. When the defendant has been guilty of a fraud in contracting the 
debt, or incurring the obligation for which the action is brought, or in
concealing or disposing of the property, for the taking, detention or con­
version, of which the action is brought; 
5. When the defendant has removed or disposed of his property, or is
about to do so, with intent to defraud his creditors. 
6. When the action is to prevent threatened injury to or destruction of
property in 'which the party bringing the action has some right, interest,
or title, which will be impaired or destroyed by such injury or destruction
and the danger is imminent that such property will be destroyed or its
value impaired to the injury of the plaintiff; 
7. On the final judgment or order of any court in this territory while
the same remains in force when the defendant having no property subject
to execution or not sufficient to satisfy such judgment has money which he
ought to apply in payment upon such judgment, which he refuses to ap­
ply with intent to defraud the plaintiff or when he refuses to comply with
a legal order of the court with intent to defraud the plaintiff, or when any
one or more of the causes exist for which an arrest is allowed in the first
class of cases mentioned in this section.-Code of 1881, § 116. 
Burrichter v. Cline, 3 W. 135; 26 P. 192. See Constitution, Art. 1 ~ 17. 
§ 251 [230.] .Aflldavits and other proof required. The
court or judge making the order of arrest shall first be satisfied, by the 
affidavit of the party, or his agent or attorney, and other proof under
oath, exclusive of the complaint that the case is one in which an arrest is
provided for in section one hundred and sixteen, and that one or more of
the prescribed causes exist, which proof shall be in writing, and, together
with the order, be filed with the clerk before he shall issue any warrant
for the arrest.-Laws-of 1887-8, p. 31, § 1. 
Burrichter v. Cline, 3 W. 135; 26 P. 192. 
§ 252. [231.J Oourt must flx bail. · The court or judge making the
order shall, in all cases, specify therein the amount in which the defend­ 
ant shall be held to bail, which shall, in no case, exceed· the demand of
the plaintiff, and one hundred dollars in addition thereto, which amount
the clerk shall indorse upon the writ, and the court shall also, in the or­
der, fix the amount of the bond to be given by the plaintiff, as provided
in the next succeeding section, which amount shall in no case be less
than one hundred dollars.-Code of 1881, § 118. 
§ 253. [232.J Bond, amount fixed by court-Sureties. Before any
clerk shall issue a warrant for the arrest of the defendant, he shall require
the plaintiff to place on file in his office a copy of the order granting the 
warrant, unless the same was made in open court, and appears in the
minutes, the original affidavit and proofs upon which the order was made,
and a bond, on behalf of the plaintiff, in such an amount as the court
may have fixed in the order, with sureties to the satisfaction of the clerk,
conditioned to pay to the defendant all damages which he shall suffer and all
expenses he shall incur by reason of such arrest or imprisonment, if the
order shall be vacated in the manner provided for in the next succeeding section, or if the plaintiff fail the recover his action.-Code of 1881, § 
ng.
§ 254. [233.J Order, how vacated. The defendant may, on 
motion, apply to the court to vacate the order of arrest, on the ground of
insufficiency of the proof, or he may show that the facts alleged upon
which the order issued are untrue, or be may apply to have the amount 
bail reduced. If the court, upon any such motion, shall vatcate the order,
the defendant shall be discharged from the arrest, and any bond he may
have given shall be cancelled, but the action, unless dismissed for other
cause, shall be conducted in the same manner as in cases where complaint
and notice were duly served and filed. -Code of 1881. § 120. 
Ferguson v. Tobey, 1 W. T., 175. 
§ 255. [234.] Warrant not to Issue till complaint filed. When an
order of arrest is granted prior to the filing of the complaint, the warrant 
shall not issue until the complaint is filed with the clerk, and a copy of
said complaint shall be served on the defendant with the warrant; but an
order of arrest may be granted at any time after the action is commenced,
and before judgment is satisfied, when the party seeking the order shall
comply with the preceding provisions in regard to arrests.-Code of 1881, 
§ 121. 
§ 256. [235.] Warrant must state cause of arrest and amount of
bail. The warrant shall, in all cases, contain a short statement of the
alleged causes for which the order was granted, and also the amount for 
which bail is required,:--Code of 1882, § 125. 
§ 257. [236.] Copy of warrant must be given defendant. The war­
rant must be delivered to the sheriff, who upon arresting the defendant,
must deliver to him a copy thereof.-Code of 18811 122. 
§ 258. [237.] How warrant is executed-Sheriff's fees. The sheriff
shall execute the warrant by arresting the defendant, and keeping him in 
custody until discharged by law. And the plaintiff, in the first instance,
shall be liable for the sheriff's fees, for the food and maintenance of any
person under arrest, which, if required by the sheriff, shall be paid
weekly in advance. And such fees so paid shall be added to the costs
taxed or accruing in the case, and be collected as other costs. And if the
plaintiff shall neglect to pay such fees for three days after a demand, in
writing, upon the plaintiff or his attorney for payment, the sheriff may
discharge defendant out of custody.-Code of 1.881, § 123. 
§ 259. [238.] Conditions of bail bond. The defendant may give bail by
causing a bond to be executed by two or more sufficient sureties, stating
their places of residence and occupations, conditioned that the defendant
shall at all times render himself amenable to the process of the court
during the peudency of the action, and to such as may be issued to en­
force the judgment rendered therein ; or if he be arrested for the cause
mentioned in the third subdivision of section one hundred and sixteen 
[250], it shall be further conditioned that the specific article of property,
or instrument of writing which is the subject matter of the writ, shall be
forthcoming, to abide any order which shall be made therein ; or if he be
arrested for the cause mentioned in the sixth subdivision of said section,
it shall be further conditioned that he will not commit the injury or
destruction alleged to be threatened. in the affidavit or proofs on which the
arrest is ordered.-Code of 1881, § 124. 
§ 260. [ 239.] Bail may surrender defendant. At any time
before a failure to comply with their bonds, the bail may surrender the 
defendant in their exoneration, or he may surrender himself to the sheriff
of the county where he was arrested, in the following manner : - 
1. A certified copy of the bail bond shall be delivered to the sheriff, 
who shall retain the defendant in his custody thereon as upon an order
of arrest and by a certificate in writing, acknowledge the surrender. 
2 •. Upon the production of a copy of the bail bond and sheriff's certifi­
cate, a judge of the district court may, upon a notice to the plaintiff of
eight days, with a copy of the certificate, order that the bail be exoner­
ated, and on filing the order and the papers used on such application,
they shall be exonerated accordingly. But this section does not apply to
an arrest for the cause mentioned in the sixth subdivision of section one
hundred and sixteen [250].-Code of 188r. § 126. 
§ 261. [240.] Bail may arrest defendant. For the purpose of sur­
rendering the defendant, the bail, at any time or place before they are
finally discharged, may themselves arrest him, or, by written authority 
indorsed upon a certified copy of the bond, may empower any person of
suitable age and discretion to do so.-Code of 1881, § 127. 
§ 262. [241.] Action only remedy against bail. In case of failure to
comply with the condition of the bond, the bail can be proceeded against
by action only.-Code of 1881, § 128. 
§ 263. [242.] Exoneration of bail. The bail may be exonerated
either by the death of the defendant, or his imprisonment in the peniten­ 
tiary, or by his legal discharge from the obligation to render himself
amenable to the process, or by his surrender to the sheriff of the county
where he was arrested, in exoneration thereof, within twenty days after
commencement of the action against the bail, or within such further
time as may be granted by the court.-Code of 1881, § 129. 
§ 264. [243.] Plaintiff may except to bail within ten days. With­
in the time limited for that purpose, the sheriff must deliver the order of 
arrest to the clerk, with his return indorsed thereon, and the bond of the
bail, or a copy thereof. The plaintiff, within ten days thereafter, may
serve upon the sheriff a notice that he does not accept the bail, or he must
be deemed to have accepted it, and the sheriff shall be exonerated from
liability.-Code of 1881, § 130. 
§ 265. [244.] Notice of justification. On the receipt of notice, the
sheriff or defendant may, within ten days thereafter, give to the plaintiff 
or his attorney notice of the justification of the same, or their bail ( spec­
ifying the places of residences and occupations of the latter) before [judg­
ment] [tke judge] of the court or justice of the peace, at a specified time
and place, the time to be not less than five days nor more than ten there­
after. In case other bail is given, there must be a new bond in the form
prescribed in section one hundred and twenty-four [259].-Code of 1881, 
§ 131. 
§ 266. [245.] Qualifications of bail. The qualifications of the bail
shall be as follows :- 
I. Each of them shall be a resident of the territory; but no counselor
or attorney at law, sheriff, clerk of the district court, or other officer of
such court, shall be permitted to become bail in any action. 
2 •. Each of the bail shall be worth the amount specified in the order of
arrest, or the amount to which the order·may be reduced, as provided in
this chapter, over and above all debts and liabilities, and exclusive of
property exempt from execution; but the judge or justice, .on justifica­
tion, may allow more than two sureties to justify, severally in amounts 
less than that expressed in the order, if the whole justification be equiva­
lent to that of two sufficient bail.-Code of 1881, § 132. 
§ 267. [246.] J11stifl.cation of bail. For the purpose of justification,
each of the bail must attend before the judge or justice of the peace at 
the time and place mentioned in the notice, and may be examined on
oath on the part of the plaintiff touching his sufficiency, in such manner
as the judge or justice of the peace, in bis discretion may think proper.
The examination must be reduced to writing, and subscribed by the bail, 
· if required by the plaintiff.-Code of 1881, § 133. 
§ 268. [247.] Allowance to be indorsed if found sufficient. If the
judge or justice find the bail sufficient, he shall indorse his allowance 
thereof on the bond, and cause it to be filed with the clerk and the sheriff
shall thereupon be exonerated from liability.-Code of 1881, § 134. 
§ 269. [ 248.] :Money may be deposited in place of bail. The de­
fendant may at the time of his arrest, instead of giving bail, deposit with
the sheriff the amount mentioned in the order. The sheriff must there·
upon give the defendant a certificate of deposit, and the defendant shall 
be discharged from custody.-Code of 1881, § 135. 
§ 270. [249.] Bail money to be paid into court within ten days. 
The sheriff shall, within ten days after the deposit, pay the same into
court, and take from the officer receiving the same two certificates of such
payment, the one of which be must deliver to the plaintiff and the other
to the defendant. For any default in making such payment, the same
proceeding may be had on the official bond of the sheriff to collect the
sum deposited, as in case of delinquency.-Code of 1881, § 136. 
§ 271. [250.] Bail may be substit11ted for money deposited. If the
money be deposited, as provided in the last two sections, bail may be
given and justified, upon notice as hereinbefore provided, at any time be­ 
fore judgment; and thereupon the judge before whom justification is
had shall direct in the order of allowance that the money deposited be
refunded by the sheriff or clerk to the defendant, and it shall be refunded
accordingly.-Code of 1881, § 137. 
§ 272. [251.] Disposition of bail money. When money shall have
been so deposited, if it remain on deposit at the time of an order or j udg­
ment for the payment of money to the plaintiff, the clerk shall, under the
direction of the court, apply the same in the satisfaction thereof, and,
after satisfying judgment, refund the surplus, if any, to the defendant.
If the judgment be in favor of the defendant, the clerk shall refund to
him the whole sum deposited and remaining unapplied.-Code of 1881, 
§ 138. . 
§ 273. [252.] Sheriff liable for escape. If, after being ar­
rested, the defendant escapes or be rescued, the sheriff himself shall be
liable as bail ; but be may discharge himself from such liability by· giving 
bail at any time before judgment.-Code of 1881, § 139. 
§ 274. [253.] Judgment against Sheriff. If the judgment be recov­
ered against the sheriff upon his liability as bail, and an execution there­ 
on be returned unsatisfied, the same proceedings may be had on the offi­
cial bond of the sheriff to collect the deficiency as in other cases of delin­ 
quency .--Code of 1881, § 140. 
§ 275. [254.] When bail liable to sheriff'. The bail taken on
arrest shall, unless they justify, or other bail be given or justified, be lia­
ble to the sheriff, by action, for the damages which be may sustain by 
reason of such omission.-Code of 1881, § 141 . 
f 276. Plaintiff' may claim immediate delivery. 
~ 277. Affidavit required, contents of. 
e 2;8. Bond and affidavit to be served. 
e 279. Exceptions to and justification of sure­
ties. 
e 28o. Defendant may give bond to keep prop­
erty. 
§ 276. [255.] Plaintiff' may claim immediate delivery. The plain­
tiff in an action to recover the possession of personal property may, at
the time of issuing the summons, or at any time before answer, claim the 
immediate delivery of such property as herein provided.-Code of 1881, 
§ 142. 
Laurendeau v. Fugelli, 21 P. 29; I W. 559. Sires v. Newton, 1 W. 356. Kerron
v. N. P. L. &. M. Co., 24 P. 445; l W. 241. Chamberlin v. Winn, 20 P. 78o;
24 P. 446; I W. 501-259. Silsby v. Aldridge, 23 P. 836; l W. n7. Marsh v.
Wade, 20 P. 578; I W. 538. 
§ 277. [256.] Aflldavit required, contents of. When a delivery is
claimed, an affidavit shall be made by the plaintiff, or by some one in his
behalf, showing.- 
I. That the plaintiff is the owner of the property claimed (particularly
describing it), or is lawfully entitled to the possession thereof, by virtue
of a special property therein, the facts in respect to which shall be set 
forth; 
. CHAPTER XXIII. 
CLAIM TO RECOVER PERSONAL PROPERTY. 
2. That the property is wrongfully detained by defendant ;
3. That the same bas not been taken for a tax, assessment, or fine pur­ 
suant to a statute, or seized under an execution or attachment against the
property of the plaintiff, or if so seized, that it is by law exempt from
such seizure ; and 
4. The actual value of the property.-Code of 1881, § 143. 
Scott v. McGraw, 3 W. 678; 29 P. 26o. 
f 281. Justification of defendant's sureties. 
i 282. Qualification of sureties. 
i :283. Building may be broken into by aherifr. 
i 284. Sheriff to keep property. 
f 285. Proceedings when third part:, claims
property. 
f 286. Sheriff's return. 
§ 278. [257.] Bond and affidavit to be served. Upon the receipt of
the affidavit, and a bond to the defendant, executed, by one or more suffi­ 
cient sureties, approved by the sheriff, to the effect that they are bound in
double the value of the property as stated in the affidavit, · for the prose­
cution of the action, for the return of the property to the defendant, if
return thereof be adjudged, and for the payment to him of such sum as
may for any cause be recovered against the plaintiff, the sheriff shall
forthwith take the property described in the affidavit, if it be in the pos­
session of the defendant or his agent, and retain it in his custody. He
shall also, without delay, serve on the defendant a copy of the affidavit
and bond by delivering the same to him personally, if be can be found,
or his agent, from whose possession the property is taken ; or if neither
can be found, by leaving them at the usual place of abode of either, with
some person of suitable age and discretion ; or if neither have any 
known place of abode, by putting them in the post-office, directed to the
defendant, at the post-office nearest his place. of residence.-Code of 1881, 
§ 144. 
Meigs v. Keach, I W. T. 305. Boyer v. Fowler, I W. T. IOI. 
§ 279. [258.] Exception to and justification of sureties. The de­
fendant may, within three days after the service of a copy of the affidavit
and bond, give notice to the sheriff that he excepts to the sufficiency of 
the sureties ; if he fail to do so, he shall be deemed to have waived all
objections to them. When the defendant excepts, the sureties shall justify
on notice in like manner as bail on arrest, and the sheriff shall be respon ·
sible for the sufficiency of the sureties until the objection to them is either
waived as above provided, or until they shall justify, or new sureties
shall be substituted and justify. If the defendant except to the sureties,
he cannot reclaim the property as provided in the next section.-Code OJ 
1881, § 145. 
§ 280. [2;59.] Defendant may give bond to keep property. At any
time before the delivery of the property to the plaintiff, the defendant
may, if he do not except to the sureties of the plaintiff, require the re­
turn thereof, upon giving to the sheriff a bond, executed by one or more
sufficient sureties, to the effect that they are bound in double the value of
the property, as stated in the affidavit of the plaintiff, for the delivery
thereof to the plaintiff, if such delivery be adjudged, and for the payment
to him of such sum as may, for any cause, be recovered against the de­
fendant. If a return of the property be not so required within three
days after the making and service of the notice to the defendant, it shall
be delivered to the plaintiff except as provided in section one hundred 
and fifty-one [285].-Code of 1881, § 146. 
§ 281. [26o.] Justification of defendant's sureties. The defendant's
sureties, upon a notice to the plaintiff or his attorney of not less than
two nor more than six days, shall justify in the same manner as bail up­
on arrest; upon such justification, the sheriff shall deliver the property
to the defendant. The sheriff shall be responsible for the defendant's
sureties until they justify, or until justification is completed or expressly
waived, and may retain the property until that time ; but if they, or
others in their place, fail to justify at the time and place appointed, he 
shall deliver the property to the plaintiff.-Code of 1881, § 147. 
§ 282. [261.] Qualifications of sureties. The qualification of sureties
and their justification shall be as prescribed in respect to bail upon an
order of arrest.-Code of 1881, § 148. 
§ 283. [262.] Building may be broken into by sheriff. If the
property, or any part thereof, be concealed in a building or enclosure, the
sheriff shall publicly demand its delivery. If it be not delivered, he 
shall cause the building or enclosure to be broken open, and take the
property into his possession, and if necessary, he may call to his aid the 
power of his county.-Code of 1881, § 149. 
§ 284. [263.] Sheriff to keep property. When the sheriff shall have
taken the property as herein provided, he shall keep it in a secure place,
and deliver it to the party entitled thereto, upon receiving his lawful fees 
for taking and his .aecessary expenses for keeping the same.-Code oj
1881, § 150. . 
§ 285. (264.] Proceedings when third party claims property. If
the property taken be claimed by any other person than the defendant or his
agent, and such person make affidavit of his title thereto, or his right to 
the possession thereof, stating the grounds of such title or right, and
serve the same upon the sheriff before the delivery of the property to the
plaintiff, the sheriff shall not be bound to keep the property or deliver it
to the plaintiff, unless the plaintiff, on demand, indemnify the sheriff
against such claim by a bond, executed by two sufficient sureties, ac­
companied by their affidavits that they are each worth double the value
of the property, as specified in the affidavit of plaintiff, over and above
their debts and liabilities, exclusive of property exempt from execu­
tion, and freeholders or householders of the county ; and no claim to such
property by any other person than the defendant or his agent shall be
valid against the sheriff, unless made as aforesaid; and notwitstanding
such claim when so made, he may retain the property a reasonable time
to demand such indemnity. - Code of 1881, § 151. 
§ 286. [265.] Sheriff 'a return. The sheriff shall file the affidavit,
with the proceedings thereon, with the clerk of the court in which the
action is pending within twenty days after taking the property mentioned 
therein.-Laws of 1891, p. 72, § 1. 
i 287.
By whom granted. 
i 291), Order need not be served if notice has 
I 2ss.
For what causes granted.
been. 
I 289.
Injunction against malicious building. 
i 300.
:Money collected on judgment to be paid 
,. 290.
May issue at any time before judgment.
into court. 
I 291.
Must be upon notice except in cases of 
i 301.
I>isobedience a contempt-Attachment 
emergency,
. may issue. 
I 292.
Affidavits may be read on hearing. 
i 293.
PinH may be imposed. 
i 294.
Bond required before order shall iB11ue.
i 304· 
i 295- 
Original bond to continue unless insufli- 
l 302.
Arrest upon attachment. 
i 303. 
§ ;287. (266.] By whom granted. Restraining orders and injunctions
may be granted by the district court in term time or by any judge of the 
supreme court in vacation.-Code of 1881, § 153. 
Bond for appearance. 
Motions to vacate or modify on notice. 
i 3<>5.
Damages on dissolution not to exceed 
dent.
ten per cent. 
In actions atfecting real estate may in-
writ. 
I l96,
Copy of order to be served in place of 
I 297.
Release of errors after judgment.
I 307. 
i 298. 
CHAPTER XXIV. 
INJUNCTIONS AND RESTRAINING ORDERS. 
Knowledge of injunction sufficient to
h>8. 
i3<>6. 
elude rents and waste. 
Motion to reinstate after dissolution. 
Judge has same powers as court.
bind. 
§ 288. (267.] For what causes granted. When it appears by the
complaint that the plaintiff is entitled to the relief demanded, and the
relief, or any part thereof, consists in restraining the commission or con­
tinuance of some act the commission or continuance of which during the
litigation would produce great injury to the plaintiff; or when, during 
the litigation, it appears that the defendant is doing, or threaten(ed] 
[threatening], or is about to do, or is procuring, or is suffering some act
to be done, in violation of the plaintiff's rights respecting the subject of
the action, tending to render the judgment ineffectual; or where such re­
lief, or any part thereof, consists in restraining proceedings upon any
final order or judgment,-an injunction may be granted to restrain such 
act or proceedings until the further order of the court, which may after­
wards be dissolved or modified upon motion. And where it appears, in
the complaint, at the commencement of the action, or during the penden­
cy thereof, by affidavit, that the defendant threatens or is about to remove
or dispose of his property· with intent to defraud his creditors, a tempo­
rary injunction may be granted to restrain the removal or disposition of
bis property.-Code of 1881, § 154. 
Meeker v. Gilbert 3 W. 369; 19 P. 18. Bingham v. City of Walla Walla, 3 W.
T. 68; 13 P. 4o8. Meacham Arms Co. v. Swarts, 2 W. 412; 7 P. 859. Colwell 
v. Smith, 1 w .. T. 92. 
§ 289. [268.] Injunction against malicious building. An mjunc­
tion may be granted to restrain the malicious erection, by any owner or
lessee of land, of any structure intended to spite, injure or annoy an ad­ 
joining proprietor. And where any owner or lessee of land has mali­
ciously erected such a structure with such intent, a mandatory injunction 
will lie to compel its abatement and removal.-Laws of 1883, p. 44, § 1. 
§ 290. [269.] May issue at any time before judgment. The in­
junction may be granted at the time of commencing the action, 
or at any time afterwards, before judgment in that proceeding.-Code o/ 
1881, § 155. · 
§ 291. [270.] Must be upon notice except in cases of emergency. 
No injunction shall be granted until it shall appear to the court or judge
granting it that some one or more of the opposite party concerned bas
had reasonable notice of the time and place of making application, except
that in cases of emergency, to be shown in the complaint, the court may
grant a restraning order until notice can be given and hearing had there­ 
on.-Code of 1881, § 156. 
State ex rel Miller v. Lichtenberg, 4 W., 407, 30 P., 716. 
§ 292. [271.] Affidavits may be read on hearing. On the hearing
of an application for an injuncion, each party may read offidavits.-Code 
of 1881, § 157. 
§ 293 . .[272.] Terms may be imposed. Upon the granting or con­
tinuing an injuncion, such terms and conditions may be imposed upon 
the party obtaining it as may be deemed equitable.-Code of 1881, § 158. 
§ 294. [273,] Bond required before order shall issue. No injunc­
tion or restraining order shall be granted until the party asking it shall 
enter into a bond, in such a sum as shall be fixed by the court or judge
granting the order, with surety to the satisfaction of the clerk of the dis­
trict court, to the adverse party affected thereby, conditioned to pay all
damages and costs which may accrue by reason of the injunction or re­
straining order. The sureties shall if required by the clerk, justify in
like manner as bail upon an arrest, and until they so justify, the clerk shall 
be responsible for their sufficiency.-Codeef 1881, § 159. 
§ 295. [274.] Original bond to continue unless insufficient. When
an injunction i~ granted upon the hearing, after a temporary restraining
order, the plaintiff shall not be required to enter into a second bond, un­ 
less the former shall be deemed insufficient, but the plaintiff and his
surety shall remain liable upon his original bond.-Code ef 1881, § 16o. 
§ 296. [275.] Oopy of order to be served in place of writ. It shall 
not be necessary to issue a writ of injunction, but the clerk shall issue a
copy of the order or injunction duly certified by him, which shall be forth­
with served by delivering the same to the adverse party.--Code of 1881,
§ 161. 
§ i97. [276.] Release of erron after judgment. In application to
stay proceedings after judgment, the plaintiff shall indorse upon his 
complaint a release of errors in the judgment whenever required to do
so by the judge or court.-Code of 1881, § 162. 
§ 298 [277.] Knowledge of injunction sufficient to bind. An order
of injunction shall bind every person and officer restrained from the time 
he is informed thereof.-Code of 1881, § 163. 
· § 299. [278.] Order need not be served if notice has been. When
notice of the application for an injunction has been served upon the ad­
verse party, it shall not be necessary to serve the order upon him, but he 
shall be bound by the injunction as soon as the bond required of the
plaintiff is executed and delivered to the proper officer.-Code of 1881, 
§ 164. 
§ 300. [279.] Money collected or Judgment to be paid into court. 
Money collected upon a judgment afterward enjoined, remaining in the
hands of the collecting officer, shall be paid to the clerk of the court
granting the injunction, subject to theorder of the court.-Code of 1881, 
§ 165. 
§ 301. [280.] Disobedience a contempt-Attachment may issue. 
Whenever it shall appear to any court granting an order of injunction, or
judge thereof in vacation, by affidavit, that any person has willfully diso­
beyed the order after notice thereof, such court or judge shall award an
attachment for contempt against the party charged, or a rule to show
cause why it should not issue. ,The attachment or rule shall be issued
by the clerk .of the court, and directed to the sheriff, and shall be served
by him.-Code of 1881(' § 166. 
§ 302. (281.] Arrest upon attachment. The attachment for con­
tempt .sball be immediately served by arresting the party charged, and 
bringing him into court, if in session, to be dealt with as in other cases
of contempt ; and the court shall also take all necessary measures to se­ 
cure and indemnify the plaintiff against damages in the premises. -Code 
of 1881, § 167. 
§ 303. (282.] Bond for appearance. If the court is not in session,
the officer making the arrest shall cause the person to enter into a bond,
with surety, to be approved by the officer, conditioned thathe personally
appear in open court whenever his appearance shall be required, to an­
swer such contempt, and that he will pay to the plaintiff all his damages
and costs occasioned by the breach of the order ; and in default thereof,
he shall be committed to the jail of the county until he shall enter into
such bond, with surety, or be otherwise legally discharged.-Laws of 
1891, p. 97, § I. 
§ 304. [283.] Motion to vacate or modify on notice. Motions to 
dissolve or modify injunctions may be made in open court, or before a
judge of the superior court, at any time after reasonable notice to the ad­
verse party.-Laws of 1891, p. 74, ~ 1. 
§ 305. [284.] Damages upon dissolution not to exceed ten per
cent. When an injunction to stay proceedings after judgment for debt
or damages shall be dissolved, the court shall award such damages, not
exceeding ten per cent., on the judgment, as the court may deem right, 
against the party in whose favor the injunction issued.-Code of 1881, § 
170. 
§ 3o6. [285.] In actions affecting real estate may include rents
and waste. If an injunction to stay proceedings after verdict or judg­
ment in an action for the recovery of real estate, or the possession thereof, 
be dissolved, the damages assessed against the party obtaining the in­
junction shall include the reasonable rents and profits of the lands recov­
ered, and all waste committed after granting injunction.-Code of 1881, 
§ 171. . 
§ 307. [286.] Motion to re-instate after dissolution. Upon an order
being made dissolving or modifying an order of injunction, the plaintiff
may move the court to reinstate the order, and the court may, in its dis­ 
cretion, allow the motion, and appoint a time for hearing the same before
the court, or a time and place for hearing before some judge thereof, and
upon the hearing, the parties may produce such additional affidavits or
depositions as the court shall direct, and the order of injunction shall be
dissolved, modified or reinstated, as the court or judge may deem right.
Until the hearing of the motion to ·reinstate the order of injunction, the
order to dissolve or modify it shall be suspended.-Code of 1881; § 172. 
§ 308. [287.] Judge has same power as court. The judge of the
district court shall have the power to make every order in vacation which,
by the provisions of this chapter, may be made by the court in term time. 
-Code of 1881, § 173. 
§ 309. [288.] When attachment may issue. The plaintiff at the
time of commencing an action, or at any time afterward before judg­
ment, may have the property of the defendant, or that of any one or more
of several defendants, attached in the manner hereinafter prescribed, as 
security for the satisfaction of such judgment as he may recover.-Laws 
of I 886, p. 39, § I. 
Nisqually Mill Co. v. Taylor, 1 W. T., 1. 
§ 310. [289.] Grounds for---Affldavit shall state-Clerk to issue. 
The writ of attachment shall be issued by the clerk of the court in which
the action is pending ; but before any such writ of attachment shall issue,
the plaintiff, or some one in his behalf, shall make and file with such
clerk an affidavit showing that the defendant is indebted to the plaintiff
(specifying the amount of such indebtedness over and above all just cred­
its and offsets), and that the attachment is not sought and the action is
not prosecuted to hinder, delay, or defraud any creditor of the defendant,
and either,- 
1. That the defendant is a foreign corporation ; or 
2. That the defendant is not a resident of this territory; or 
3. That the defendant conceals himself so that the ordinary process of
law cannot be served upon him ; or 
4. That the defendant bas absconded or absented himself from his
usual place of abode in this territory, so that the ordinary process of law
cannot be served upon him; or 
5. That the defendant bas removed or is about to remove any of bis
property from this territory, with intent to delay or defraud his creditors ; 
or
6. That the defendant bas assigned, secreted, or disposed of, or is about 
to assign, secrete or dispose of, any of his property, with intent to delay
or defraud his creditors ; or 
7. That the defendant is about to convert his property, or a part there­
of, into money, for the purpose of placing it beyond the reach of his cred­
itors; or 
8. That the defendant bas been guilty of a fraud in contracting the
debt or incurring the obligation for which the action is brought; or 
9. That the damages for which the action is brought 'are for injuries
arising from the commission of some felony, or for the seduction of some
female.-Laws of 1886, p. 39, § 2. 
Nisqually Mill Co. v. Taylor, I W. I.' 
§ 311. [290.] When debt not yet due. An action may be com­
menced and the property of a debtor may be attached previous to the 
time when the debt becomes due, when nothing but time is wanting to
fix an absolute indebtedness, and when the affidavit, in addition to that
fact, states, - 
· 1. That the defendant is about to dispose of his property with intent to
defraud his creditors ; or 
2. That the defendant is about to remove from the territory, and re­
fuses to make any arrangements for securing the payment of the debt
when it falls due, and which contemplated removal was not known to the
plaintiff at the time the debt was contracted; or 
3. That the defendant has disposed of his property, in· whole or in
part, with intent to defraud his creditors ; or 
4. That the debt was incurred for property obtained under false pre­
tenses. -Laws of 1886, p. 39, § 3. 
Cox v. Dawson, 2 W. 381; 26 P. 973. 
§ 312. [291.] Answer need not be flied until debt due. If the debt
or demand for which the attachment is sued out is not due at the time of 
the commencement of the action, the defendant is not required to file any
pleadings until the maturity of such debt or demand, but he may, in his
discretion, do so, and go to trial as early as the cause is reached. -Laws 
of I 886, p. 40, § 4· 
' . 
§ 313. [292.] No judgment without consent until debt due-Per­
ishable property. No final judgment shall be rendered in such action,
unless the party consents, as in the last section, until the debt or demand
upon which it is based becomes due. But property of a perishable na­ 
ture may be sold as in other cases of attachment.-Laws of 1886, p. 40, 
§ 5. 
§ 314. [293.] Bond to be given befbre writ issued. Before the writ
of attachment shall issue, the plaintiff, or some one in his behalf, shall 
execute and file with the clerk a bond or undertaking, with two or more
sureties, in a sum in no case less than three hundred (300) dollars in the
district court, nor less than fifty (50) dollars in a justice's court, and
double the amount for which plaintiff demands judgment, conditioned
that the plaintiff will prosecute his action without delay, and will pay
all costs that may be adjudged to the defendant, and all damages which
he may sustain by reason of the attachment, not exceeding the amount
specified in such bond or undertaking, as the penalty thereof, should the
same be wrongfully, oppressively, or maliciously sued out. With said
bond or undertaking, there shall also be filed the affidavit of the sureties,
from which it must appear that such sureties are qualified, and that they
are, taken together, worth the sum specified in the bond or undertaking,
over and above all debts and liabilities and property exempt from execu­
tion. No person not qualified to become bail upon arrest shall be quali­
fied to become surety upon a bond or undertaking for an attachment.­
Laws of 1886, p. 40, § 6. 
Dawson v. Baum, 3 W. T. 464; 19 P. 46. Baxter v. Smith, ~ W. T. 97; 4 P. 35. 
§ 315. [294.] Additional security may be required. The defendant
may, at any time before judgment, move the court or judge foraddition­
al security on the part of the plaintiff, and if, on such motion, the court 
or judge is satisfied that the surety in the plaintiff's bond has removed
from this territory, or is not sufficient, the attachment may be vacated,
and restitution directed of any property taken under it, unless in a rea­
sonable time, to be fixed by the court or judge, further security is given
by the plaintiff in form as provided in section six [314] of this act.­ 
Laws of 1886, p. 40, § 7. 
§ 316. [295.] Measure of damages in action on bond. In an action
on such bond, the plaintiff therein may recover, if he shows that the at- 
5 ' 
tachment was wrongfully sued out, and that there was no reasonable
cause to believe the ground upon which the same was issued to be true,
the actual damages sustained and reasonable attorney's fees to be fixed
by the court ; and if it be shown that such attachment was sued out ma­
liciously, he may recover exemplary damages, nor need he wait until the
principal suit is determined before suing on the bond.--Laws of 1886, p. 
41, § 8. . 
§ 317. [296.] Execution of writ. The writ of attachment shall be
directed to the sheriff of any county in which property of the defendant
may be, and shall require him to attach and safely keep the property of 
such defendant within his county, to the requisite amount, which shall
be stated in conformity with the affidavit. The sheriff shall in all cases
attach the amount of property directed, if sufficient not exempt from exe­
cution be found in his county, giving that in which the defendant has a
legal and unquestionable title a preference over that in which his title is
doubtful or only equitable, and be shall, as nearly as the circumstances
of the case will permit, levy upon property fifty per cent. greater in valu­
ation than the amount which plaintiff in his affidavit claims to be due.
When property is seized on attachment, the court may allow to the officer
having charge thereof such compensation for his trouble and expenses in
keeping the same as shall be reasonable and just.-Laws of 1886, p. 411 
§ 9·
Marsh v. Wade, 20 P. 578; I W. 538. 
§ 318. [297.] Writs may issue to different counties. Writs of at­
tachment may be issued from the district courts to different counties, and
several may, at the option, of the plaintiff, be issued at the same time, or
in succession and subsequently, until sufficient property has been at­ 
tached ; but only those executed shall be taxed in the costs, unless other­
wise ordered by the court, and if more property is attached in the aggre­
gate than the plaintiff is entitled to have held, the surplus must be aban­
doned and the plaintiff pay all costs incurred in relation to such surplus.
After the first writ shall have issued, it shall not be necessary for the
plaintiff to file any further affidavit or bond, but be shall be entitled to
as many writs as may be necessary to secure the amount claimed.-Laws
of 1886, p. 411 § IO. 
§ 319. [298.] Must be executed in order received. Where there are
several attachments against the same defendant, they shall be executed 
in the order in which they were received by the sheriff.-Laws of 1886, 
p. 41, § II. 
Meacham Arms Co. v. Strong, 3 W. T. 61; 13 .P. 245. 
§ 320. [ 299.] Sheriff may attach removed property in adjoining
county. If, after an attachment has been placed in the hands of the
sheriff, any property of the defendant is moved from the county, the sher­
iff may pursue and attach the same in an 'adjoining county, within twen­
ty-four hours after removal.-Laws of 18861 p. 42, § 12. 
§ 321. [300.] Bow writ is executed. The sheriff to whom the writ
is directed and delivered must execute the same without delay, as fol­ 
lows:- 
1. Real property shall be attached by filing a copy of the writ, to­
. gether with a description of the property attached, with the county aud­ 
itor of the county in which the attached real estate is situated. 
· 2. Personal property capable of manual delivery shall be attached by
taking into custody. 
3. Stock or shares, or interest in stock or shares, of any corporation,
association, or company shall be attached by leaving with the president
or other head of the same, or the secretary, cashier, or managing agent
thereof, a copy of the writ, and a notice stating that -the stock or interest
of the defendant is attached in pursuance of such writ. 
4. Debts and credits and other personal property not capable of manual
delivery shall be attached by leaving with the person owing such debts,
or having in his possession or under his control such credits or other per­
sonal property, a copy of the writ and a notice in writing that the debts
owing by him to the defendant, or the credits and other personal property
in his possession or under his control, are attached in pursuance of such 
writ.-Laws of 1886, p. 42, § 13. 
Byrd v. Forbes, 3 W. T. 324; 13 P. 715. Corser v. Craig, 1 W. C. C. 424. Stan­
ley v. March, 20 P. 592; 1 W. 512. 
§ 322. (301.] Examination of defendant. Whenever it appears by
the affidavit of the plaintiff, or by the return of the attachment, that no
property is known to the plaintiff or officer on which the attachment can 
be executed, or not enough to satisfy the plaintiff's claim, and it being
shown to the court or judge by affidavit that the defendant has property
within the territory not exempt, the defendant may be required by such
court or judge to attend before the court or judge, or referee appointed by
the court or judge, and give information on oath respecting the same.­ 
Laws of 1886, p. 42, § 14. 
§ 323. (302.] Receiver may be appointed. The court before whom
the action is pending, or the judge thereof in vacation, may at any time
appoint a receiver to take possession of property attached under the pro­ 
visions of this act, andto collect, ll\fnage and control the. ssme, and pay
over the proceeds according to the nature of the property and the ex­
igency of the case.-Laws of 1886, p. 42, § 15. 
§ 324. (303.] Perishable property may be sold and debts collected. 
If any of the property attached be perishable,· or in danger of serious
and immediate waste or decay, the sheriff shall sell the same in the man­
ner in which such property is sold on execution.· Whenever it shall be
made to appear satisfactorily to the court or judge that the interest of
the parties to the action will be subserved by a sale of any attached
property, the court or judge may ·order such property to be sold in the
same manner as like property is sold under execution. Such order shall 
be made only upon notice to the adverse party or his attorney in case
such party shall have been personally served with . a summons in the
action. Debts and credits attached may be collected by the sheriff, if the
same can be done without suit, and the sheriff's receipt shall be a suffi­
cient discharge for the amount paid.-Laws of 18861 p. 42, § 16. 
§ 325. (304.] Sheriff may retain money received. All moneys re­
ceived by the sheriff under the provisions of this act and all other 
attached property shall be retained by him to answer any judgment that may 
be recoved in the action unless sooner subjected to execution upon an­
other judgment recovered previous to the issuing of the attachment.-­ 
Laws of 1886, p. 43, § 17. 
§ 326. (305.] Debtors of defendant liable to plaintiff: All persons
having in their possession or under their control any credits or other per- 
sonal property belonging to the defendant or owing any debts to the
defendant at the time of the service Upon them of a copy of the writ and
notice, as provided in subdivision four of section thirteen [321] of this
act, shall be, unless such property be delivered up or transferred, or such
debts be paid to the sheriff, liable to the plaintiff for the amount of such
credits, property or· debts, until the attachment be discharged or any
judgment recovered by him be satisfied.-Laws of 1886, p. 43, § 18. 
§ 327. [306.] Sheriff, judgment debtors, etc., may be ·garnished. 
A sheriff or constable may be garnished for money of the defendant in
bis hands. So may a judgment debtor of the defendant when the judg­
ment has not been previously assigned on the record or by writing filed
in the office of the clerk and by him minuted as an assignment on the
margin of the execution docket, and also an· executor or administrator
may be garnished for money due from the decedent to the defendant.­ 
Laws of 1886, p. 43, § 19. 
§ 328. [307.] Money in court, how attached. When the property
to be attached is a fund in court, the execution of a writ of attachment
shall be by leaving with the clerk of the court thereof, with notice in 
writing specifying the fund.-Laws of 1886, p. 43, § 20.
§ 329. [308.] Sheriff to make inventory-Garnishee may be exam­ 
ined. The sheriff shall make a full inventory of the property attached
and return the same with the writ. To enable him to make such return
as to debts and credits attached, be shall request at the time of service
the party owing the debt or having the credit to give him a memorandum
in writing stating the amount and description of each, and if such mem­
orandum be refused he shall return the fact of the refusal with the writ.
The party refusing to give the memorandum may be required to attend
before the court or judge, or a referee appointed by the court or judge,
and answer under oath respecting such debts or credits or other property.
If, when duly summoned, be fail to appear and answer the interrogatories
propounded to him, without sufficient excuse for his delinquency, he
shall be presumed to be indebted to the defendant to the full amount of
the plaintiff's demand. But for a mere failure to appear be is not liable
to pay the amount lof plaintiff's judgment until he bas bad an opportu­
nity to show cause against the issuing of an execution.-Laws of 1886, p. 
43, § 21. 
Coombs v. Davis, 2 W. T., 466., 7 P., 86o'. Weisbach v. Arnold, 3 W.T., III. 13 
P., 417. 
§ 330. [309.] Judgment against garnishee. If, upon the examina­
tion of such garnishee, as provided in the last section, it appears that the
garnishee was indebted to the defendant, or had any-credits or other 
property of the defendant in his possession, or under his control at the
time of the service of the copy of the writ and notice upon him, as here­
inbefore provided, or at any time subsequent thereto, be is liable to the
plaintiff in case judgment is finally recovered by him to the full amount
of that judgment, or to the amount of such indebtedness and of the cred­
its or other personal property held by him, and a judgment shall be en­ 
tered up against him accordingly.-Laws of 1886, p. 44, ~ 22. 
§ 331. [310.] Execution suapended if debt not due. If the debt
of the garnishee to the defendant is not due, execution shall be suspended 
until its maturity.-Laws of 1886, p. 44, § 23. 
§ 332 [311.] Garnishee on negotiable paper not liable unless. 
The garnishee shall not be made liable on a debt due by negotiable pa­
per, unless such paper is delivered or the garnishee completely exonerated
or indemnified from all liability thereon after he may have satisfied the
judgment.-Laws of 1886, p. 44, § 24. 
§ 333. [312.] Application of attached property on judgments. If
judgment be recovered by the plaintiff, the sheriff shall satisfy the same 
out of the property attached by him which has not been delivered to the
defendant or claimant as in this act provided or subjected to execution on
another judgment recovered previous to the issuing of the attachment, if
it be sufficient for that purpose,- 
1. By applying on the execution issued on said judgment the proceeds
of all sales of perishable or other property sold by him, or of any debts
or credits collected by him, or so much as shall be necessary to satisfy
the judgment. 
2. If any balance remain due he shall sell under the execution so much
of the property, real or personal, as may be necessary to satisfy the bal­
ance, if enough for that purpose remain in his bands. 
Notice of the sale shall be given and the sale conducted as in other
cases of sales on execution.-Laws of 18861 p. 44, § 25 .. 
§ 334. [313.] When attached property insufllcient, execution­
Surplus to be returned. If, after selling all the property attached by
him remaining in his hands, and applying the proceeds, together with the· 
proceeds of any debts or credits collected by him, deducting his fees, to
the payment of the judgment, any balance shall remain due, the sheriff
shall proceed to collect such balance as upon an execution in other cases.
Whenever the judgment shall have been paid the sheriff, upon reasona­
ble demand, shall deliver over to the defendant the attached property re­
maining in his bands and any proceeds of the property attached unap­
plied on the judgment.-Laws of 18861 p. 44, § 26. 
§ 335. [314.] Execution for balance of judgment. If the execution
be returned unsatisfied, in whole or in part, the plaintiff may proceed as 
in other cases upon the return of an execution.-Laws of 18861 p. 451 § 
27. 
§ 336. [315.] If judgment for defendant, property to be returned. 
If the defendant recover judgment against the plaintiff, all the proceeds
of sales and money collected by the sheriff and all the property attached
remaining in the sheriff's hands shall be delivered to the defendant or
bis agent. The order of attachment shall be discharged, and the proper­
ty released therefrom.-Laws of 1886, p. 45, § 28. 
§ 337. [316.] Defendant's bond for discharge of attachment. If
the defendant, at any time before judgment, causes a bond to be executed 
to the plaintiff with sufficient sureties, to be approved by the officer hav­
ing the attachment or after the return thereof by the clerk to the effect
that he will perform the judgment of the court, the attachment shall be
discharged and restitution made of property taken or proceeds thereof.
The execution of such bond shall be deemed an appearance of such de­
fendant to the action.-Laws of 1886, p. 45, § 29. 
Rodolph v. Mayer, I W. T. r33. 
§ 338. [317.] Defendant's bond part of record-Judgment
thereon. Such bond shall be part of the record, and if judgment go 
against the defendant, the same shall be entered against him and sureties.
-Laws of 1886, p. 45, § 30. 
§ 339. [318.] Motion to discharge attachment. The defendant may
at any time after he bas appeared in the action, either before or after the
release of the attached property or before any attachment shall have been
actually levied, apply on motion, upon reasonable notice to the plaintiff, 
to the court in which the action is brought or to the judge thereof, that
the writ of attachment be discharged on the ground that the same was 
improperly or irregularly issued.-Laws of 1886, p. 45, § 31. 
Rodolph v. Mayer, 1 W. T., 133. Kratz v. Dawson, 3 W. T., 100.-13 P. 663.
Renton v. St. Louis, 1 W. T., 215. Windt v. Banniza, 2 W, 147.-26 P. 18g. 
§ 340. [319.] Aflldavits, etc., on hearing to discharge. If the mo­
tion be made upon affidavits upon the part of the defendant, but not
otherwise, the plaintiff may oppose the same by affidavits or other evi­ 
' dence in addition to those on which the attachment was issucd.-Laws 
of 1886, p. 45, § 32. 
Windt v. Banniza, 2 W. 147.-26 P., 18g. 
§ 341. [320.] Attachment must be discharged if improperly is­
sued. If upon application it satisfactorily appears that the writ of at­
tachment was improperly or irregularly issued, it must be discharged.­ 
Laws of 1886, p. 45, § 33· 
§ 342. [321.] Sheriff to return writ with summons_:_Return of
order of discharge. The sheriff must return the writ of attachment
with the summons, if issued at the same time, otherwise, within twenty
days after its receipt, with a certificate of his proceedings indorsed there­
on or attached thereto, and whenever an order bas been made discharg­
ing or releasing an attachment upon real property a certified copy of such
order may be filed in the offices of the county auditors in which the
notices of attachment have been filed and be indexed in like manner. - 
Laws of 1886, p. 45, § 34·
§ 343; [322.] Liberal construction-Amendments allowed. This 
act shall be liberally construed, and the plaintiff, at any time when ob­
jection is made thereto, shall be permitted to amend any defect in the
complaint, affidavit, bond, writ or other proceeding, and no attachment
shall be quashed or dismissed, or the property attached released, if the
defect in any of the proceedings has been or can be amended so as to show
that a legal cause for the attachment existed at the time it was issued,
and the court shall give the plaintiff a reasonable time to perfect such de­
fective proceedings. The causes for attachment shall not be stated in the
altemative.-Laws of 1886, p. 46, § 35. 
§ 344. [323.] Judge has same power as court. The judge of any
district court shall have power to make every order in vacation which, 
by the provisions of this act, may be made by the court in term time.-·
Laws of 1886, p. 46, § 36. 
§ 345. [324.] Sheriff equivalent to constable-Justice courts, The 
word '' sheriff'' as used in this act is meant to apply to constables, when
the proceedings are in a justice's court, and when the proceedings are in a
justice's court, the justice is to be regarded as the clerk of the court for
all purposes herein contemplated : provided, that nothing contained in this
act shall be construed to confer upon a justice of the peace power to 
issue a writ of attachment to be served out of the county in which such
justice shall have his office, or to confer upon a sheriff, constable or other
officer power or authority to serve a writ of attachment issued out of jus­
tice's court beyond the limits of the county in which such justice shall
have his office, except in cases provided for in section twelve [320] of
this act: and provided further, that nothing contained in this act shall
be construed or held to authorize the attachment of real estate, or of any
interest therein, under a writ of attachment issued out of any justice's 
court.-Laws of 1886, p. 46, § 37. 
i 346. Grounds for issuing writ. 
i 347, Bond when required. requisite, of, 
i 348. Affidavit necessary, contents of. 
i 349. Writ of garnishment, returnable in
twenty and thirty days. 
i 350. Corporation must answer whether de-
fendant a shareholder. 
i 351. Form of writ. 
~ 352. Attested etc., like attachment. 
i 353. Served like summons. 
i 354. Garnishee not to pay defendant after
service of writ. 
i 355. Answer to be under oath, served and
filed. 
i 356. If anawer denies liability and is uncon­
troverted, judgment or discharge
shall be entered. 
i 357. Judgment by default on failure to an­
swer. 
i 3,58. Judgment on answer-Order to pay into
court when debt matures. 
§ 346. Grounds for issuing writ. The clerks of the superior courts
in the various counties in the state may issue writs of garnishment re­ 
turnable to their respective courts in the following cases : 
1. Where an original attachment has been issued in accordance with
the statutes in relation to attachments. 
2. Where the plaintiff sues for a debt and makes affidavit that such
debt is just, due and unpaid, and that the garnishment applied for is not
sued out to injure either the defendant or the garnishee. 
3. Where the plaintiff has a judgment wholly or partially unsatisfied
in the court from which he seeks to have a writ of garnishment issued.­ 
Laws of 1893, p. 95, § I. 
CHAPTER XXVI. 
GARNISHMENTS.* 
City of Laredo v. Nalle, 65 Tex. 359. 
i 359. Execution-Amount recovered to be ap­
plied on judgment apinst defendant 
or paid to him. 
~ :f,o. Personal property, when held or sold. 
i 361. Failure of garnishee to deliver personal
property is contempt. 
i 362. Sale of stock of incorporation on execu­
tion. 
i 363. Sale conducted same as of other person­
al property. 
i 364. Sale effectual to pass title. 
i 365. Answer may be controverted by affida-
vit. 
i 366. Defendant may also controvert answer, 
i 367. If answer controverted, issue joined. 
i 368. Wages for sixty days exempt. 
i 369. If garnishee discharged] plaintiff' shall
pay costs. 
i 370. Judgment of court sufficient answer to
defendant's claim against garnishee. 
i 371. Provisions not to apply in justice courts. 
§ 347. Bond when required, requisites of. In the case mentioned
in subdivision two of the preceding section the plaintiff shall execute a 
bond with two or more good and sufficient sureties, to be approved by the
clerk issuing the writ, payable to the defendant in the suit in double the
amount of the debt claimed therein, conditioned that he will prosecute
his suit and pay all damages and costs that may be adjudged against him
for wrongfully suing out such gamishment.-Laws of 1893, p. 95, § 2. 
§ 348. Aflidavit necessary, contents of. Before the issuance of the
writ of garnishment the plaintiff or some one in his behalf shall make
application therefor by affidavit, stating the facts authorizing the issu­ 
ance of the writ, and that the plaintiff has reason to believe, and does be­
lieve, that the garnishee, stating his name and residence, is indebted to
the defendant, or that he bas in his possession, or under his control, per­
sonal property or effects belonging to the defendant, or that the garnishee
is an incorporated or joint stock company, and that the defendant is the
owner of shares in ·such company or has an interest therein.-Laws of 
1893, p. 95, § 3. 
Bowers v. Const. Ins. Co., 65 Tex. 51. 
§ 349. Writ of garnishment returnable in twenty and thirty days. 
When the foregoing requisites have been complied with the clerk shall
docket the case in the name of the plaintiff as plaintiff and of the gar­
nishee as defendant, and shall immediately issue a writ of garnishment
directed to the garnishee, commanding him to appear before the court
from which it is issued within twenty days after the service of the writ
upon him, if the same be served upon him within the county in which
the same is issued, or within thirty days if served in any other county in
this state, and to answer on oath what, if anything, he is indebted to 'the
defendant, and was when such writ was served,' and what personal prop­
erty or effects, if any, of the defendant he has in his possession or under 
his control, or had when such writ was served.-Laws of 1893, p. 96, § 4. 
§ 350. Corporation must answer whether defendant is share­
holder. Where it appears from the plaintiff's affidavit that the gar­ 
nishee is an incorporated or joint stock company, in which the defendant
is the owner of shares, or is interested therein, the writ of garnishment
shall further require the garnishee to answer upon oath what number of
shares, if any, the defendant owns in such company, or owned when such 
writ was served.-Laws of 1893, p. 96, § 5. 
§ 35 r. l'orm of writ. Said writ may be substantially in the follow­
ing form: 
STATE OF WASHINGTON. 
To AB, greeting: .
Whereas, in the superior court of the State of Washington, in and for 
----·-·----- county, in a certain cause wherein C D is plaintiff and E Fis de­
fendant, the plaintiff claiming an indebtedness against the said E F of 
___________ dollars, besides interest and cost of suit, has applied for a writ of
garnishment against you : 
Now, therefore, you are hereby commanded to be and appear before
the said court within twenty days after the service upon you of this writ, 
if served within county, and within thirty days after the
service of this writ upon you if served in any other county of this state, 
then and there to answer upon oath what, if anything, you are indebted
to the said E F, and were when this writ was served upon you, and what
effects, if any, of the said E F you have in your possession or under your
control, and had when this writ was served (and if the garnishee be an
incorporated or joint stock company, in which the defendant is alleged to
be the owner of shares, or interested therein, then the writ shaJl proceed;
and further, to answer what number of shares, if any, the said E F owns
in such company, and owned when this writ was served upon you.)-Laws 
of 1893, p. 96, § 6. 
§ 352. Attested, etc., like attachment. The writ of garnishment
.shall be dated and tested in like manner as the writ of attachment, and 
the name and office address of the plaintiff's attorney shall be indorsed
thereon, or in case the plaintiff has no attorney, then the name and ad­
dress of the plaintiff shall be indorsed thereon, and may ·be delivered to
the sheriff by the clerk who issues it, or he may deliver it to the plaintiff,
or his agent or attorney for that purpose.-Laws of 1893, p~ 97, § 7. 
§ 353. Served like summons. The sheriff, on receiving the writ of
garnishment, shall immediately proceed to serve the same on the gar­ 
nishee, in like manner as summons is served, and shall make return
thereof in like manner as a return of summons is made.-Laws of 1893, 
p. 97, § 8. 
§ 354. Garnishee not to pay defendant after service of writ. From
and after the service of such. writ of garnishment, it shall not be lawful
for the garnishee to pay to the defendant any debt or to deliver to him
any effects, nor shall the garnishee if an incorporated or joint stock com­ 
pany, in which the defendant is alleged to be the owner of shares or to
have an interest, permit or recognize any sale or transfer of such
shares or interest ; and any such payment, delivery, sale or transfer shall
be void and of no effect as to so much of said debt, effects, shares, or
interest as may be necessary to satisfy the plaintiff's demand·.-Laws OJ 
1893, p. 97, § 9· 
Thompson v. Gainesville Bank, 66 Tex. 156. Bassett v. Garthwaite, 22 Tex. 230.
Simon v. Ash, (Tex.) 20 S. W., 719. Focke v Blum, 17 S. W., 770 (Tex.)
Carter v. Bush, 15 S. W., 167 (Tex.) Gause v. Cone, II S. W.1 162 (Tex.) 
§ 355. Answer to be under oath served and filed. The answer of
the garnishee shall be under oath in writing and signed by him, and shall 
make true answers to the several matters inquired of in the writ of gar­
nishment, and shall be served upon the plaintiff or his attorney and filed 
with the clerk of the superior court.-Laws of 1893. p. 98, § 10. 
First National Bank v. Robertson, 19 S. W., 1009 (Tex.)
Melton v. Lewis, 12 S. W., 93 (Tex.) Selman v. Orr, 12 S. W., 697 (Tex.) 
§ 356. If answer denies liability and is uncontroverted,judgment
of discharge shall be entered. Should it appear from the answer of
the garnishee that he is not indebted to the defendant, and was not so
indebted when the writ of garnishment was served on him, and that he
has not in his possession or under his control any personal property or
effects of the defendant, and had not when the writ was served ; and when
the garnishee is an incorporated or joint stock company in which the de­
fendant is alleged to be the owner of shares of stock or interested therein,
if it shall further appear from such answer that the defendant is not, and
was not when the writ was served, the owner of any of such shares or
interested in such company, and should the answer of the garnishee not
be controverted as hereinafter provided, and within the time hereinafter
provided, the court shall enter judgment discharging the gamishee.­ 
Laws of 1893, p. 98, § 11 •. 
§ 357. Judgment by default on failure to answer. Should the gar­
nishee fail to make answer to the writ within the time prescribed therein,
it shall be lawful for the court, and on or after the time to answer such 
writ has expired, to render judgment by default against such garnishee
for the full amount claimed by plaintiff against the defendant, or in case 
plaintiff has a judgment against defendant, for the full amount of such
judgment with all accruing interest and costs.-Laws of 1893, p. 98, § 12 •. 
§ 358. Judgment on answer-Order to pay into court when debt
matures. Should it appear from the answer of the garnishee or should
it be otherwise made to appear, as hereinafter provided, that the garnishee 
is indebted to the defendant in any amount, or was so indebted when the
writ of garnishment was served, the court shall render judgment for the
plaintiff against such garnishee for the amount so admitted or found to be
due to the defendant from the garnishee, unless such amount shall exceed
the amount of plaintiff's claim or demand against the defendant with in­
terest and costs, in which case it shall be for the amount of such claim or
demand, interest and costs: Provided, however, If it shall appear from the
answer of the answer of the garnishee and the same is not controverted,
or if it shall appear from the trial hereinafter provided for, that the gar­
nishee is indebted to the principal defendant in any sum, but that such
indebtedness is not matured and is not due and payable, the court shall
make an order requiring the garnishee to pay such sum into court when
the same becomes due, the date when such payment is to be made to be
specified in said order, and in default thereof that judgment shall be en­
tered against the garnishee for the amount of such indebtedness so ad­
mitted or found due. In case the garnishee shall pay said sum at the
time specified in said order, said payment shall operate as a discharge,
otherwise judgment shall be entered against him for the amount of such
indebtedness, which judgment shall have the same force and effect, and
be enforced in like manner as other judgments provided for in this act;
Provided, furtlier, That if judgment shall be rendered in favor of the prin­
cipal defendant, or if any judgment rendered against him be satisfied
prior to the date of payment specified in said order, the garnishee shall
not be required to make the payment hereinbefore provided for, nor shall
any judgment in such case be entered against him.-Laws of 1893,
p. 98, § 13. 
§ 359. Execution-Amount recovered to be applied on judgment
against defendant or paid to him. Execution may be issued on the
judgment against the garnishee herein provided for in like manner as
upon any other judgmeut. The amount made upon any such execution 
shall be paid by the officer executing the same to the clerk of the superior
court from which such execution was issued; and in cases where judg­
ment has been rendered against the defendant the amount made on the
execution shall be applied to the satisfaction of the judgment, interest
and costs against the defendant. In case judgment has not been ren­
dered against the defendant at the time execution issued against the gar­
nishee is returned, any amount made on said execution shall be paid to
the clerk of the court from which such execution issued who shall retain
the same until judgment be rendered in the action between the plaintiff
and defendant, In case judgment be rendered therein in favor of the
plaintiff, the amount made on the execution against the garnishee shall
be applied to the satisfaction of such judgment and the surplus, if any
there be, shall be paid to the defendant. In case judgment be rendered
in such action in favor of the defendant, the amount made on said ex·
cution against the garnishee shall be paid to the defendant.-Laws of 
1893, p. 99, § 14. 
§ 36o. Personal property when held or sold. Should it appear
from the garnishee's answer or otherwise that the garnishee has in his 
possession or under his .eontrol, or had when the writ was served, any
personal property or effects of the defendant liable to execution, the court
shall render a decree requiring the garnishee to deliver up to the sheriff
on demand such personal property or effects or so much of them as may
be necessary to satisfy the plaintiffs claim. In cases where a judgment
has been rendered in favor of the plaintiff against the defendant, such
personal property or effects may be sold in like manner as any other
property is sold upon an execution issued on said judgment. In cases
where judgment has not been rendered in the principal action, the sheriff
shall retain said personal property or effects in his possession until the
rendition of judgment therein, and in case judgment is rendered in said
principal action in favor of the plaintiff, said goods or effects, or sufficient
of them to satisfy such judgment, may be sold in like manner as other
property is sold on execution, by virtue of an execution issuing on said
judgment. In case judgment shall be rendered in said action against the
plaintiff and in favor of the defendant, such effects and personal property
shall be by the sheriff returned to the defendant: Provided, however,
That in cases where such effects or personal property are of a perishable
nature, or the interests of the parties will be subserved by making a sale
thereof before judgment, the court may order a sale thereof by the sheriff
in like manner as sales upon execution are made, and the proceeds of
such sale shall be paid to the clerk of the superior court, and like dispo­
sition shall be made of such proceeds at the termination of the action as
would have been made of such personal property or effects under the pro­
visions of this section, in case such sale had not been made.-Laws of 
1893, p. 100, § J5. 
§ 361. Failure of garnishee to deliver personal property is con­
tempt. Should the garnishee adjudged to have effects or personal prop­
erty of the defendant in his possession or under his control as provided
in the preceding article, fail to deliver or refuse to deliver them to the 
sheriff on such demand, the officer shall immediately make return of
such failure or refusal, whereupon, on motion of the plaintiff, the gar­
nishee shall be cited to show cause why he should not be attached for
contempt of court for such failure or refusal, and should the garnishee
fail to show some good and sufficient excuse for such failure and refusal,
he shall be fined for such contempt and imprisoned until he shall deliver 
· such personal property or effects.-Laws of 1893, p. 101, § 16. 
§ 362. Sale of stock, if incorporated, in execution. Where the gar­
nishee is an incorporated or joint stock company, and it appears by the 
answer or otherwise that the defendant is or was, when the writ of gar­
ishment was served, the owner of any shares of stock in such company
or any interest therein, the court shall render a decree ordering the sale
under execution in favor of the plaintiff, against the defendant, of such
shares or interest of the defendant in such company, or so much thereof
as may be necessary to satisfy such execution.e=Zews of 1893, p. 101, § 
17. 
Harrell v. Mex Cattle Co., II S. W., 863 (Tex.). Smith v. Traders' Nat'l Bank, 
12 S. W., 113. 
§ 363. Sale conducted same as of other personal property~ The
sale so ordered shall be conducted in all respects as other sales of per- 
sonal property under execution, and the sheriff making such sale shall
execute a transfer of such shares or interest to the purchaser with a brief
recital of the judgment of the court under which the same was sold.­
Laws of 1893, p. 101, § 18. 
§ 364. Sale effectual to pass title. Such sale shall be valid and
effectual to pass to the purchaser all the right, title and interest which 
the defendant had in such shares of stock, or in such company, and the
proper officers of such company, shall enter such sale and transfer on the
books of the company in the same manner as if the sale had been made
by the defendant himself.-Laws of 1893, p. 101, § 19. 
§ 365. Answer may be controverted by aflldavit. If the plaintiff
should not be satisfied with the answer of the garnishee he may contro­ 
vert the same by affidavit in writing signed by him, stating that he has
good reason to believe and does believe that the answer of the garnishee
is incorrect, stating in what particulars he believes the same is incorrect. 
-Laws of 1893, P.· 101, § 20. 
§ 366. Defendant may also controvert answer. The defendant
may also in like manner controvert the answer of the garnishee.-Laws 
of 1893, p. IOI, § 21.
Kelly v. Gibbs, (Tex·.), 19 S. W., 563. 
§ 367. If answer controverted issue joined. If the answer of the
garnishee is controverted, as provided in the two preceding sections, an
issue shall be formed, under the direction of the court, and tried as other 
cases : Provided, however, No pleadings shall be necessary on such issue
other than the affidavit of the plaintiff, the answer of the garnishee and
the reply of the plaintiff or defendant controverting such answer, unless
otherwise ordered by the court.-Laws of 18931 p. 101, § 22. 
§ 368. Wages for sixty days exempt. No current wages or salary
for personal services rendered by any person having a family dependent on
him for support within sixty days next preceding the service of the writ
shall be subject to garnishment, and where it appears upon the trial or by
the answer of the garnishee, when not controverted as herinbefore pro­
vided, that the garnishee is indebted to such defendant for such current
wages or salary, the garnishee shall be discharged as to such indebted­ 
ness.-Laws of 1893, p. 102, § 23.
Snyder v. City of Galveston, 15 S. W. (Tex.), 202. 
( § 369. If garnishee discharged, plaintiff shall pay costs. Where (
the garnishee is discharged upon his answer, the costs of the proceeding, i 
'. including a reasonable compensation to the garnishee for attorney's fees, f 
. shall be taxed against the plaintiff; where the answer of the garnishee
, has not been controverted and the garnishee is held thereon such costs, 
shall be taxed against the defendant and included in the judgment. :
Where the answer is controverted the costs shall abide . the issue of such l 
\..contest.-Laws of 1893, p. 102, ~ 24. 
§ 370. Judgment of court sufllcient answer to defendant's claim
against garnishee. It shall be a sufficient answer to any claim of the
defendant against the garnishee founded on any indebtedness of such gar­
nishee or on the possession by him of any personal property or effects or 
where the garnishee is an incorporated or joint stock company, in w._;h
the defendant was the owner of shares of stock or other interest therein 
for the garnishee to show that such indebtedness was paid or such effects
delivered, or such shares of stock or other interest in such company were
sold under judgment of the court in accordance with the provisions of
this act.-Laws of 18931 p. 102, § 25. 
§ 371. Provisions not to apply in justice courts. The provisions of ~
this act shall not apply to the actions and proceedings before justices of
the peace, but garnishments shall be made in such actions and proceed- 
. ings in the manner now provided by existing laws.-Laws of 18931 p. 102. 
I§ 26. . 
i 372. Who is a receiver. 
i 373, In what cases appointed. 
i 374. Bond. 
CHAPTER XXVII. 
RltCEIVERS AND DltPOSIT IN COURT. 
i 375. Receiver ai,pointed or deposit ordered
on admission in pleading. 
i 376. Failure to deposit a contempt-Sheriff to 
take property. 
i 377. Money deposited not to be loaned unleu
by consent. 
i 378. Receiver's powers, 
i 379. Defendant may be ordered to satisfy
claim admitted. 
§ 372. [325.] Who is a receiver. A receiver is a person appointed"
by a court or judicial officer to take charge of property during the pen­ 
ding of a civil a~ion, or proceeding, or upon a judgment, decree, or or­
der therein, and to manage and dispose of it as the court or officer may 
direct.-Laws of 1891, p. 90, § 1. .• 
§ 373. [326.] In what cases appointed. A receiver may be appointed
by the court in the following cases :- 
1. In an action by a vendor to vacate a fraudulent purchase of proper­
ty, or by a creditor to subject any property or fund to his claim; 
2. In an action between partners, or other persons jointly interested in
any property or fund; 
3. In all actions where \tis shown that the property, fund, or rents
and profits in controversy are in danger of being lost, removed, or mater­
ially injured ; 
4. In an action by a mortgagee for the foreclosure of a mortgage and
the sale of the mortgaged property, when it appears that such property is
in danger of being lost, removed, or materially injured; or when such
property is insufficient to discharge the debt, to secure the application of
the rents and profits accruing, before a sale can be had; 
5. When a corporation has been dissolved or is insolvent, or is in im­
minent danger of insolvency, or has forfeited its corporate rights; 
6. And in such others cases as may be provided for by law, or when, in
the discretion of the court, it may be necessary to secure ample justice to
the parties ; provided, that no party or atttorney or other person interested
in an action shall be appointed receiver therein.-Code of 1881, § 193. 
Lammon T. Giles, 3 W. T. 117; 13 P. 417. Wash. Iron Wks. Co. v. Jansen, 3 W.
58g; 28 P. 1019. Brown v. Ranch, 20 P. 785; I W. 497, Thompson v. Hu­
ron Lum. Co., 4 W. 6oo; 30 P. 417, and 31 P. 25. 
§ 374. (327.] Bond. Before entering upon his duties, the receiver
must be sworn to perform them faithfully. and, with one or more sureties 
approved by the court, execute a bond to such person as the court may 
direct, conditioned that he will faithfully discharge the duties of receiver
in the action, and obey the orders of the court therein.-Code of 1881, 
§ 194.
§ 375. [328.] Receiver appointed or deposit ordered on admission 
in pleading. When it is admitted by the pleading or examination of a
party that he has in his possession, or under his control, any money, or
other thing capable o{ delivery, which, being the subject of the litigation,
is held by him as trustee for another party, or which belongs or is due to
anotherparty, the court may order the same to be deposited in court, or
delivered to such party, with or without security, subject to the further
direction of the court.-Code of 1881, § 195. 
§ 376 [329.] Failure to deposit is contempt-Sheriff to take prop­
erty. Whenever, in the exercise of its authority, a court shall have or­ 
dered the deposit or delivery of money or other thing, and the order is
disobeyed, the court, besides punishing the disobedience as for contempt,
may make an order requiring the sheriff to take the money or thing, and
deposit or deliver it, in conformity with the direction of the court.-Code 
of 1881, § 196. 
§ 377. [330.] Money deposited not to be loaned unless by consent. 
Money deposited or paid into a court in an action shall not be loaned out,
unless with the consent of all parties having an interest in or making 
claim to the same.-Code of 1881, § 197. 
• 
§ 378. [331.] Receivers' powers. The receiver shall have power,
under control of the oourt, to bring and defend actions, to tale and keep
possession of the property, to receive rents, collect debts, and generally to 
do such acts respecting the property as the court may authorize.-Code OJ
1881, § 198. 
§ 379. [332.] Defendant may be ordered to satisfy claim admitted. 
When the answer of the defendant admits part of the plaintiff's claim to
be just, the court, on motion, may order the defendant to satisfy that part of the claim, and may enforce the order by execution or attachment.
-Code of 1881, § 199. · 
§ 380. When issues arise-Two kinds. Issues arise upon the plead­
ings when a fact or conclusion of law is maintained by one party and con­
troverted by the other, they are of two kinds,--· 
1. Of law ; and 
2. Of fact.-Laws of 1893, p. 415, § 28. 
§ 381. Issues oflaw. An issue of law arises upon a demurrer to the
complaint, answer or reply.-Laws of 1893, p. 415, § 29. 
§ 382. Issues of fact. An issue of fact arises: 
1. Upon a material allegation in the complaint controverted by the an­
swer; or, 
2. Upon new matter in the answer, controverted by the reply; or,
3. Upon new matter in the reply except when an issue of law is joined 
thereon.-Laws of 1893. p. 415, § 30. · 
§ 383. [336.] Issues of law and fact in one action. Issues both of
law and of fact may arise upon different and distinct parts of the plead­ 
ings in the same action. In such cases the issues of law shall be first
tried unless the court otherwise direct.-Laws oJ 1893, p. 115, § 30, and
Code of 1881, § 203. 
§ 384. Definition of trial. A trial is the judicial examination of the
issues between the parties whether they are issues of law or of fact.­ 
Laws of 1893, p. 416, § 31.
§ 385. Issues of law tried by court. An issue of law shall be tried 
by the court, unless it is referred as provided by the statutes relating to
referees. -Laws of 1893, p. 416, § 32. 
§ 386. What issues of fact tried by jury. An issue of fact, in an
action for the recovery of money only, or of specific real or personal prop­ 
erty shall be tried by a jury, unless a jury is waived, as provided by
law, or a reference ordered, as provided by statute relating to referees.­ 
Laws of 1893, p. 416, § 33. 
Meeker v. Gilbert, 3 W. T. 36g; 19 P. 18. Baker v. Prewett, 3 W. T. 595; 19 P.
149. Wash. Iron Wks. v. Jansen 3 W. 584; 28 P. 1019. 
§ 387. Other iSBues of fact tried by court. Every other issue of
fact shall be tried by the court, subject, however, to the right of the par­ 
ties to consent, or of the court to order, that the whole issue, or any spe­
cific question of fact involved therein, be tried by a jury, or referred.­ 
Laws of 1893, p. 416, § 34· 
§ 388. [337.] How jury waived or reference agreed to-Jury in
equity causes. The waiver of a jury, or agreement to refer, shall be by
stipulation of the parties filed, or the oral consent of parties given in
open court and entered in the records; provided, that nothing herein con­ 
tained shall be so construed as to restrict the chancery powers of the
judges, or to authorize the trial of any issue by a jury, when the com­
plaint alleges an equitable claim, and seeks relief solely upon the ground
of the equities of the demand made by the pleadings in the action.­ 
Code of 1881, § 204. 
NOTE.-The first part of section 204 of the code of 1881 is here omitted as its
place is supplied by the three preceding sections of the law of 1893. 
§ 389. Defendant may demand aSBessment of damages without
answering. A defendant who has appeared may, without answering,
demand in writing an assessment of damages, of the amount which the 
plaintiff is entitled to recover, and thereupon such assessment shall be
had or any such amount ascertained in such manner as the court on ap­
plication may direct, and judgment entered by the clerk for the amount 
assessed or ascertained.-Laws of 1893, p. 415, § 25. 
§ 390. Issues how brought to trial. At any time after the issues of
fact are completed in any case by the service of complaint and answer or 
reply when necessary, as herein provided, either party may cause the issues
of fact to be brought on for trial, by serving on the opposite· party a notice
of trial at least three days before any day provided by rules of court for 
setting causes for trial, which notice shall give the title of the cause as
in the pleadings, and notify the opposite party that the issues in such
action will be brought on for trial at the time set by the court; and the
party giving such notice of trial shall, at least three days before the day
of setting such causes for trial file with the clerk of the court a note of
such issue containing the title of the action, the names of the attorneys,
and the date when the last pleading was served ; and the clerk shall
thereupon enter the cause upon the trial docket according to the date of the
issue. In case an issue of law raised upon the pleadings is desired to be
brought on for argument, either party shall, at least three days before the
day set apart by the court under its rules for hearing issues of law, serve
upon the opposite party a like notice of trial and furnish the clerk of the
court with a note· of issue as above provided, which note of issue shall
specify that the issue to be tried is an issue of law ; and the clerk of the
court shall thereupon enter such action upon the motion docket of the
court. When a cause has once been placed upon either docket of the court,
if not tried or argued at the time for which notice was given, it need not
be noticed for a subsequent session or day but shall remain upon the
docket from session to session, or from law day to law day until final dis­
position or stricken off by the court. The party upon whom notice of
trial is served may file the note of issue and cause the action to be placed 
upon the calendar without further notice on his part.-Laws of 1893, p.
416, § 35. 
§ 391. Either party may proceed in absence of other. Either party,
after the notice of trial, whether given by himself or the adverse party,
may bring the issue to trial, and, in the absence of the adverse party, 
unless the court, for good cause otherwise directs, may proceed with his
case, and take a dismissal of the action, or a verdict or judgment, as the
case may require.-Laws of 1893, p. 417, § 36. 
§ 392. Pleadings must be fl.led on or before day of trial. All plead­
ings in any civil action shall be filed with the clerk of the court, on, or 
before, the day when the case is called for trial, or the day when any ap­
plication is made to the court for an ordor therein, and in case the moving
party shall fail, or neglect, to cause the pleadings to be filed with the
clerk of the court, as above required, the adverse party may apply to the
court, without notice, for an order on such moving party to file such
pleadings forthwith, and for a failure to comply with such order the court
may order the cause dismissed, unless good cause is shown for granting
an extension of time within which to file such pleadings.-Laws of 1893, 
p. 417, § 37.
§ 393. [338.] Motion for continuance, when allowed-Affidavits. 
A motion to continue a trial on the ground of the absence of evidence
shall only be made upon affidavit showing the materiality of the evidence
expected to be obtained, and that due diligence has been used to procure
it, and also the name and residence of the witness or witnesses. The
court may also require the moving party to state, upon affidavit, the·
evidence which he expects to obtain ; and if the adverse party admit that
such evidence would be given, and that it be considered as actually given
on the trial, or offered and overruled as improper, the trial shall 
not be continued. The court, upon its allowance of the motion, 
may impose terms or conditions upon the moving party.-Code of 
1881, § 205. 
Thompson v. W. T., I W. T., 547. Fox v. Territory, 2W. T., 297, 5 P. 003. Roeder
v. Brown, I W. T., 112. Skagit Railway and Lumber Co. v. Cole, 25 P. 1077, 
I 394. 
i 39.S. 
i 396.
i 397. 
2 W., 57. State v. Brooks, 30 P. 147, 4 W., 328. 
Manner of impaneling a jury.
Challenges-Peremptory and for cause, 
three peremptory challenges.
What is a peremptory challenge.
Challenges for cause-General and par­ 
ticular. 
i 3gB. General causes. 
i 399- Particular causes. 
i 400. Implied bias. 
I 401. Actual biu---Opinions formed or ex-
pressed. 
i 402. Exemption, not cauae for challenge. 
I 403. Order of peremptory challenges. 
i 404. Order of kinds of challenges. 
i 405. Exceptions to and denial of challenge. 
i 4o6. Trial of challenges. 
I 407. Challenge, exception, and denial made
orally. 
i 4o8. Oath or affirmation of jurors. 
i 409. Conduct of trial-Charge to jury. 
i 410. Requests to charge. 
i 411. Judges to decide questions of law. 
i 412. Jury to decide questions of fact. 
f 415. 
f 416. 
i 417. 
f 418. 
I 420. 
f 421. 
f 422. 
f 423. 
f 424. 
I 425. 
i 426. 
View of premises by jury.
Judge may dittct jurors not to be aepa - 
rated, etc.
mness of juron.
Juror may be a witness.
Custody of jury while deliberating.
Food and lodging furnished at expense 
of county.
Pleadings and evldenee may be taken 
into jury room.
Further instruction on jury's request.
When jury may be ducbarged before 
verdict. ·
When jury discharged, action for trial 
anew.
Court deemed open while jury out.
Names to be called after agreement, etc.
Manner of rendering verdict.
Jury may be polled at request of either 
party.
Verdict to be in writing and filed, dis­ 
charge of jury'. 
§ 394. [339.J Manner of impaneling a jury. .When the action is
called for trial, the clerk shall prepare separate ballots containing the 
names of the jurors summoned who have appeared and not been excused,
and deposit them in a box. lie shall then draw from the box twelve
names, and the persons whose names are drawn shall constitute the jury.
If the ballots become exhausted before the jury is complete, or if from
any cause a juror or jurors be excused or discharged, the sheriff, under
the direction of the court, shallsummon from the by-standers, citizens of
the county or district, as many qualified persons as may be necessary to
complete the jury. 'Whenever it shall be requisite for the sheriff to sum­
mon more than one person at a time from the by-standers or body of the
district or· county, the names of the talesmen shall be returned to the
clerk, who shall thereupon write the names upon separate ballots and de­
posit the same in the trial-jury box, and draw such ballots separately
therefrom, as in the case of the regular panel. The jury shall consist of
twelve persons, unless the parties may consent to a less number. The
parties may consent to any number not less than three, and such con­
sent shall be entered by the clerk on the minutes of the trial.-Code of 
.1881, § 206. 
CHAPTER XXX. 
TRIAL BY JUR'\;'. 
Yelm Jim v. Territory, I W. T. 63. Clarke v. Same, I W. T. 68. Blanton v.
State, 24 P. 439; I W. 265. Harland v. Territory, 3 W. T. 130; 13 P. 453.
White v. Territory, 3 W. T. 397; 19 P. 37. 
§ 395. [340.] Challenges, peremptory and for cause-Three per­
emptory challenges. Either party may challenge the jurors, but when 
there are several parties on either side, they shall join in a challenge be­
fore it can be made. The challenge shall be to individual jurors, and be 
peremptory or for cause. Each party shall be entitled to three peremp­
tory challenges. -Code of 188 1, § 207. 
§ 396. [34r.] What is a peremptory challenge. A peremptory chal­
lenge is an objection to a juror for which no reason need be given, but 
upon which the court shall exclude him.-Code of 1881, § 208. 
§ 397. [342.] Challenge for cause, general and particular. A chal­
lenge for cause is an objection to a juror, and may be either,-:- 
1. General ; that the juror is disqualified from serving in any action ; or 
2. Particular; that he is disqualified from serving in the action on
trial.-Code of 188 1, § 209. 
§ 398. [343.] General causei. General causes of challenge are:- 
1. A conviction for a felony ; 
2. A want of any of the qualifications prescribed by law for a juror;
3. Unsoundness of mind, or such defect in the faculties of the mind or 
organs of the body as renders him incapable of performing the duties of
a juror.-Code of 1881, § 210. 
§ 399. (344.] Particular causes. Particular causes of challenge are
of two kinds : - 
1. For such a bias as when the existence of the facts is ascertained, in
judgment of law disqualifies the juror, and which is known in this code 
as implied bias; 
2. For the existence of a state of mind on the part of the juror in ref­
erence to the action, or to either party, which satisfies the trier, in the ex­
ercise of a sound discretion, that he cannot try the issue impartially and
without prejudice to the substantial rights of the party challenging, and
which is known in tliis code as actual bias.-Code of 1881, § 211. 
State v. Coell~, 28, P. 28, 3 W., 99. 
§ 400. [345.] Implied bias. A challenge for implied bias may be
taken for any or all of the following causes, and not otherwise :- 
1. Consanguinity or affinity within the fourth degree to either party; 
2. Standing in the relation of guardian and ward, attorney and client,
master and servant, or landlord and tenant, to the adverse party ; or being
a member of the family of, or a partner in business with, or in the employ­
ment for wages of the adverse party; or being surety or bail in the action
called for trial, or otherwise, for the adverse party; 
3. Having served as a juror on a previous trial in the same action, or in
another action between the same parties for the same cause of action, or
in a criminal action by the territory against either party upon substan­
tially the same facts or transaction ; 
4. Interest on the part of the juror in the event of the action, or the
principal question involved therein, excepting always the interest of the 
juror as a member or citizen of the county or municipal corporation.­
Code of 1881, § 212. 
State v. Coella, 28, P. 28, 3 W., 99. 
§ 401. (346.] Actual bias. A challenge for actual bias may be taken
for the cause mentioned in the second subdivision of section two hundred
and eleven. [399.] But on the trial of such challenge, although it 
should appear that the juror challenged has formed or expressed an 
opinion upon what he may have heard or read, such opinion shall not of
itself be sufficient to sustain the challenge, but the court must be satisfied,
from all the circumstances, that the juror cannot disregard such opinion
and try the issue impartially.-Code of 1881, § 213. 
State v. Coella, 28, P. 28, 3 W., 100. Rose v. State, 26 P., 264, 2 W., 310. 
§ 402. (347.] Exemption not cause for challenge. An exemption
from service on a jury shall not be cause of challenge but the privilege 
of the person exempted. -Code of 1881, § 214. 
Sec section 85. 
§ 403. [348.] Order of peremptory challenges. The jurors having
been examined as to their qualifications, first by the plaintiff and then by 
the defendant, and passed for cause, the peremptory c ha1lenges shall be
conducted as follows, to-wit :- 
The plaintiff may challenge one, and then the defendant may challenge
one, and so alternately until the peremptory challenges shall be ex­
hausted. The panel being filled and passed for cause, after said chal­
lenge shall have been made by either party, a refusal to challenge by
either party in the said order of alternation shall not defeat the adverse
party of his full number of challenges, but such refusal on the part of the
plaintiff to exercise his challenge in proper tum shall conclude him as to
the jurors once accepted by him, and if his right be not exhausted, his
further challenges shall be confined, in his proper turn, to talesmen only. 
-Code of 1881, § 215. 
§ 404. [349.] Order of kinds of challenge. The challenges of either
party shall be taken separately, in the following order, including in each
challenge all the causes of challenge belonging to the same class :- 
1. For general disqualification. 
2. For implied bias.
3. For actual bias. · 
4. Peremptory.-Code of 1881, § 216. 
§ 405. [350.] Exception to and denial of challenge. The challenge
may be excepted to by the adverse party for insufficiency, and if so, the 
court shall determine the sufficiency thereof, assuming the facts alleged
therein to be true. The challenge may be denied by the adverse party,
and if so, the court shall try the issue, and determine the law and the
pcts.-Code of 1881, § 217. 
§ 406. [351.] Trial of challenge. Upon the trial of a challenge the
rules of evidence applicable to testimony offered upon the trial of an 
ordinary issue of fact shall govern. The juror challenged, or any other
person otherwise competent, may be examined as a witness by either
party. If a challenge be determined to be sufficient, or found to be true,
as the case may be, it shall be allowed, and the juror to whom it was
taken excluded; but if determined or found otherwise, it shall be disal­
lowed.--Code of 1881, § 218. 
White v. Territory, 3 W. T., 397; 19 P. 37. Blanton v. State, 24 P., 439; I W. 
265. 
§ 407. [352.] Challenge, exception and denial made orally. The
challenge, the exception and the denial may be made orally. The judge 
of the court shall note the same upon his minutes, and the substance of
he testimony on either side.-Code of 1881, § 219. 
§ 408. (353.] Oath or affirmation of jurors. As soon as the number
of the jury bas been completed, an oath or affirmation shall be adminis­
tered to the j urors, in substance, that they and each of them will well 
and truly try the matter in issue between the plaintiff and defendant, and
a true verdict give, according to the law and evidence as given them on
the trial.-Code of 1881, § 220. 
Leonard v. Territory, 2 W. T., 318; 7 P. 872. 
§ 409. (354.] Conduct of trial-Charge to jury. When the jury
has been sworn, the trial shall proceed in the following order:- 
1. The plaintiff must briefly state the cause of action, and the evidence
by which he expects to sustain it. The defendant may in like manner
state the defence, and the evidence he expects to offer in support thereof;
but nothing in the nature of comments or argument shall be allowed in
opening the case. It shall be optional with the defendant whether he 
states his case before or after the close of plaintiff's testimony. 
2. The plaintiff or the party upon whom rests the burden of proof in
the whole action, must first produce his evidence; the adverse party will
then produce his evidence. 
3. The parties will then be confined to rebutting evidence; unless the
court, for good reasons, .in furtherance of justice, permits them to offer
evidence in their original case. 
4. When the evidence is concluded, either party may request the judge
to charge the jury in writing, in which event no other charge or instruc­
tion shall be given, except the same be contained in the said written
charge; or either party may request instructions to the jury on points of
law, and if the court refuse to give the same, the party requesting may
may except. Either party shall be entitled to require of the judge that
all interlocutory orders, instructions. or rulings upon the evidence during
the progress of the trial of a cause shall be reduced to writing, together
with any exceptions that may be made thereto, _and the same shall be
made a part of the record of the case ; and any refusal on the part of the
judge trying the cause or making the order to comply with all or any of 
the provisions of this section shall be regarded error, and entitle the
party whose request shall have been refused to a reversal of the judgment
on a writ of error; provided always, that the instruction or ruling so re­
quested is pertinent and consistent with the law and evidence of the
case, and that such refusal bas worked an injury to the party requesting
the same. 
5. After the conclusion of the evidence and the filing of request for
charge in writing or instructions, the plaintiff or party having the burden
of proof may, by himself or one counsel, address the court and jury upon
the law and facts of the case, after which the adverse party may address
the court and jury in like manner by himself amt one counsel, or by two
counsel, and be followed by the party or counsel of the party first ad­
dressing the court. No more than two speeches on behalf of plaintiff or
defendant shall be allowed. 
6. The court shall then charge the jury upon the law in the case.
If no request has been made for said charge to be in writing, or if no in­
structions have been requested, said charge may be oral; but either party,
at any time before the jury return their verdict, may except to the same
or any part thereof; but no exception shall be regarded by the supreme
court, unless the same shall embody the specific parts of said charge to
which exception is taken. In charging the jury the court shall state to 
them all the matters of law necessary for the information of the jury in
finding a verdict; and if it become necessary to allude to the evidence,
it shall also inform the jury that they are the exclusive judges of all
questions of fact.-Code of 1881, § 221. Constitution; Art. 4, § 16. 
Seattle v. Busby, 2 W. T.; 25; 3 P., 18o. Brewster v. Baxter, 2 W., 135; 3 P., 
844. State v. Friedrick, 29 P., 1055 ; 30 P., 328; 4 W., 214. State v. Coella, 
28 P., 28; 3 W. 99. Frederick v. Territory, 26 P., 976; 2 W., 358. Johnson
v. Tacoma Cedar Lumber Co., 29 P., 451; 3 W., 722. Meeker v. Gardella, 
1 W., 139; 23 P., 837. Cunningham v. Seattle, etc., Ry. Co., 3 W., 471; 28 
P., 745. 
§ 410. (355.] Requests to charge. Any party may, when the evi­
dence is closed, submit in distinct and concise propositions the conclu­
sions of fact which he claims to be established, or the conclusions of law
which he desires to be adjudged, or both. They may be written and
handed to the court, or, at the option of the court, oral, and entered in
the judge's minutes.-Code of 1881, § 222. 
§ 411. (356.] Judges to decide questions of law. All questions of
law, including the admissibility of testimony, the facts preliminary to 
such admission, and the construction of statutes and other writings, and
other rules of evidence, are to be decided by the court, and all discussions
of law addressed to it.-Codeof 1881, § 223. Consh"tutwn Art. 4, § 16. 
§ 412. [357.] Jury to decide questions of fact. All questions of
fact, other than those mentioned in the section preceding, shall be decided 
by the jury, and all evidence thereon addressed to them.-Code of 1881, 
§ 224. 
§ 413. [358.] View of premises by jury. Whenever in the opinion
of the court it is proper that the jury should have a view of real property
which is the subject of litigation, or of the place in which any material 
fact occurred, it may order the jury to be conducted in a body, in the cus­
tody of a proper officer, to the place, which shall be shown to them by
the judge, or by a person appointed by the court for that purpose. While
the jury are thus absent, no person other than the judge, or person soap­
pointed, shall speak to them on any subject connected with the trial.­
Code of 1881, § 225. 
Klepsch v. McDonald, 30 P., 991, 4 W., 436. 
§ 414. [359.] Judges may direct jurors not to be separated, etc. 
The jurors may be kept together in charge of a proper officer, or may,
in the discretion of the court, at any time before the submission of the
cause to them, be permitted to separate; in either case they may be ad­
monished by the court that it is their duty not to converse with any
other person, or among themselves, on any subject connected with the
trial, or to express aa opinion thereon, until the case is finally submitted
to them.-Code of 1881, § 226. 
§ 415. [36o.] Illness of juror. If after the formation of the jury, and
before verdict, a juror become sick so as to be unable to perform his duty, 
the court may order him to be discharged. In that case, unless the par­
ties agree to proceed with the other jurors, a new juror may be sworn and
the trial begin anew ; or the jury may be discharged and a new jury then 
or afterwards formed.-Code of 1881, § 227. 
§ 416. [361.] Juror may be a witness. A juror may be examined
by either party as a witness, if he be otherwise competent. If he be not 
so examined, he shall not communicate any private knowledge or infor­
mation that he may have of the matter in controversy to his fellow-jurors,
nor be governed by the same in giving his verdict.-Coa'e of 1881, § 228. 
§ 417. [362.] Custody of jury while deliberating. After hearing
the charge, the jury may either decide in the jury-box or retire for delib­ 
eration. If they retire, they must be kept together in a room provided
for them, or some other convenient place, under the charge of one or more
officers, until they agree upon their verdict, or are discharged by the
court. The officer shall, to the best of his ability, keep the jury thus
separate from other persons, without drink, except water, and without
food, except ordered by the court. He must not suffer any communica­
tion to be made to them, nor make any himself, unless by order of the
court, except to ask them if they have agreed upon their verdict, and he
shall not, before the verdict is rendered, communicate to any person the 
state of their deliberations or the verdict agreed on.-Code of 1881, § 229. 
Edwards v. W. T., 1 W. T., 195. 
§ 418. [363.] :rood and lodging furnished at expense of county. 
If, while the jury are kept together, either during the progress of the
trial or after their retirement for deliberation, the court order them to
be provided with suitable and sufficient food and lodging, they shall be
so provided by the sheriff, at the expense of the county.-Code of 1881, 
§ 230. 
§ 419. [364.] Pleadings and evidence may be taken into jury
room. Upon retiring for deliberation, the jury may take with· them the
pleadings in the cause, and all papers which have been received as evi­ 
dence on the trial (except depositions), or copies of such parts of public
records or private documents given in evidence as ought not, in the opin­
ion of the court, to be taken from the person having them in possession. 
Code of 1881, § 231. 
Doctor Jack v. Territory, 2 W. T. 101; 3 P. 832. Edwards v. Territory, 1 W. T.
195. Meeker v. Gardella et al., 23 P. 837; 1 W. 139. 
§ 420. [365.] Further instruction on jury's request .. After the
jury have retired for deliberation, if they desire to be informed of any 
point of law arising in the case, they may require the officer having them
in charge to conduct them into court. Upon their being brought into
court the information required shall be given in the presence of, or after
notice to, the parties or their attomeys.-Laws of 1891, p. 103, § 1. 
§ 421. [366.] When jury may be discharged before verdict. The
jury may be discharged by the court on account of the sickness of a ju­
ror, or other accident or calamity requiring their discharge, or by consent 
of both parties, or after they have been kept together until it satisfactorily
appears that there is no probability of their agreeing.-Code of 1881, § 
233. 
§ 422. (367.] When jury discharged, action for trial anew. In all
cases where a jury are discharged or prevented from giving a verdict, by 
reason of accident or other cause, during the progress of the trial, or after
the cause is submitted to them, the action shall thereafter· be for trial
anew.-Laws of 1891, p. 104, § 2. 
§ 423. [368.] Oourt deemed open while jury out. While the jury
are absent the court may adjourn from time to time, in respect to other
business, but it is nevertheless to be deemed open for every purpose con­ 
nected with the cause submitted to the jury until a verdict is rendered or
the jury discharged. A final adjournment of the court discharges the
jury.-Code of 1881, § 235. 
§ 424. [369.] Names to be called after agreement, etc. When the
jury have agreed upon their verdict they shall be conducted into court by
the officer having them in charge. Their names shall then be called, and 
if all do not appear, the rest shall be discharged without giving a verdict.
-Code of 1881, § 236. 
§ 425. [370.] Manner of rendering verdict. If the jury appear,
they shall be asked by the court or the clerk whether they have agreed
upon their verdict, and if the foreman answer in the affirmative, he shall 
on being required declare the same.-Code of 1881, § 237. 
§ 426. [371.] Jury may be polled at request of either party. 
When a verdict is given and before it is filed, the jury may be polled at
the request of either party, for which purpose each shall be asked whether
it is his verdict ; if any juror answer in the negative, the jury shall be
sent out for further deliberation. If the verdict be informal or insuffi­
cient, it may be corrected by the jury under the advice of the court, or
the jury may again be sent out.-Code of 1881, § 238. 
Frost v. Lum, Co., 28 P. 915; 3 W. 241. 
§ 427. [372.] Verdict to be in writing and filed-Discharge of jury. 
When the verdict is given, and is such as the court may receive, and no
juror disagree or the jury be not again sent out, the clerk shall file the
verdict. The verdict is then complete, and the jury shall be discharged
from the case. The verdict shall be in writing, and under the direction
of the court shall be substantially entered in the journal as of the day's
proceedings on which it was given.-Code of 1881, § 239. 
l 428. General and special verdicts. 
i 429. In actions for personal property dam­
ages may be assessed with value. 
i 430. When court may direct special verdict. 
~ 431. Special verdict controls. 
i 432. Jury to assess amount {>f recovery, in
what cases. 
§ 428. [373.] General and special verdicts. The verdict of a jury
is either general or special. A general verdict is that by- which the jury
pronounces generally upon all or any of the issues either in favor of the 
plaintiff or defendant. A special verdict is that by which the jury find
the facts only, leaving the judgment to the court.-Code of 1881, § 240. 
Meeker v. Gardella et al., 2 3P. 837; 1 W. 139. Meeker v. Johnson 28 P. 542; 3 
w. 247 .. 
CHAPTER XXXI. 
VERDICT. 
§ 429. [3 7 4.] In actions for personal property, damages may be
asaeased with value. In an action for the recovery of specific personal
property, if the property has not been delivered to the plaintiff, or the de­ 
fendant by his answer claim a return thereof, the jury shall assess the
value of the property if their verdict be in favor of the plaintiff; or if 
they find in favor of the defendant, and that he is entitled to a return
thereof, they may at the same time assess the damages, if any are claimed
in the complaint or answer, which the prevailing party has sustained by
reason of the detention or taking and withholding such property .-Code 
of 1881, § 241. 
Meeker v. Johnson, 3 W. 247; 28 P. 542. Quinn v. Park & Lacy Machftiery Co.,
31 P. 866; ~ W. -. 
§ 430. (375.] When court may direct special verdict. In every ac­
tion for the recovery of money only, or specific real property, the jury, 
in their discretion, may render a general or special verdict. In all other
cases, the court may direct the jury to find a special verdict in writing
upon all or any of the issues, and in all cases may instruct them, if they
render a general verdict, to find upon particular questions of fact, to be
stated in writing, and may direct a written finding thereon. The special
verdict or finding shall be filed with the clerk and entered in the minutes. 
-Code of 18811 § 242. 
Columbia & C.R. R. Co. v. Hawthorne, 3 \V. T. 353; 19 P. 25. Willey v. Mor­
row, 1 W. T. 474. Pencil v. Ins. Co., 28 P. 1031; 3 W. 485. · Stewarj: v. Wal­
la Walla P. Co., 20 P. 6o5; 1 W. 521. 
§ 431. (376.] Special verdict controls. When a special finding of
facts shall be inconsistent with the general verdict, the former shall con­
trol the latter, and the court shall give the judgment accordingly.-Code 
of 18811 § 243. 
Willey v. Morrow, 1 W. T., 475. Stewart v. Walla Walla P. & P. Co., 1 W., 521; 
20 P., 6o5. 
§ 432. (377.] Jury to asseBB amount of recovery in what cases. 
When a verdict is found for the plaintiff in an action for the recovery of
money, or for the defendant when a set-off for the recovery of money is
established beyond the amount of the plaintiff's claim as established,
the jury shall also assess the amount of the recovery; they may also,
under the direction of the court, assess the amount of the recovery when
the court gives judgment for the plaintiff on the pleadings.-Laws of 
1891, p. 104, § 3. 
TRIAL BY THE COURT.
f 433. In what cases trial by court. I 435. Conduct of trial - Findings deemed ver • 
i 434. Findingsoffactandcouclusiousoflaw. diet. 
§ 433. (378.] In what cases trial by court. Trial by jury may, with
the assent of the court, be waived by the several parties in the manner 
following: 
1. By failing to appear at trial ; 
2. By written consent, in person or by attorney, filed with the clerk;
3. By oral consent in open court, entered in the 1µinutes.-Code of 
1881, § 245. 
' 
CHAPTER XXXII. 
Stetson & Post Mill Co. v, McDonald, 32 P., 108. 
§ 434. (379.] Findings of fact and conclusion of law. Upon the
trial of an issue of fact by the court, its decisions shall be given in writ­ 
ing and filed with the clerk. In giving the decision, the facts found and 
the conclusions of law shall be separately stated. Judgme11t upon the
decision shall be entered accordingly.-Code of 1881, § 246. 
Calhoun v. Gilliland, 2 W T., 174; 2 P., 355. Eakin v. McCraith, 2 W. T., rra ; 
3 P., 838. Willey v. Morrow, 1 W. T., 474, Baker v. McAllister, 2 W. T., 
48; 3 P. 581. King Co. v. Hill, 25 P., 451; 1 W., 404. Bard v. Kleeb, 25 P., 
,67; 27 P., 273; 1 W., 371. Sadler v. Niesz, 30 P., 630; 5 W., -. 
§ 435. [380.] Conduct of trial-Findings deemed verdict. The
order of proceedings on a trial by the court shall be the same as provided 
in trials by jury. The finding of the court upon the facts shall be
deemed a verdict, and may be set aside in the same manner and for the
same reason, as far as applicable, and a new trial granted.-Code of 1881, 
§ 247.
Reynolds v. Hopper, 26 P., 221; 2 W., 185. Enos v. Wilcox, 28 P., 364; 3 W., 
46. Willey v. Morrow, I W. T., 474·. Sharpstein v. Isham, 1 W. T., P. 243. 
Kilroy v, Mitchell, 2 W., 407; 26 P., 865. 
i 436. All issues may be referred by written
consent. 
i 437, In what cases reference may be ordered
without consent. 
i 4,38. To whom reference may be ordered. 
i 439. Referee's qualifications. 
CHAPTER XXXIII. 
TRIAL BY REFEREE • 
... 
i 440. When and what challenges allowed. 
i 441. Conduct of trial same as by court. 
i 442. Contents of referee's report. 
i 443. Motion on report. 
i 444. Court 11,1,ay affirm, modify or set aside
report. 
§ 436. [381.] All issues may be referred by written consent.-All
or any of the issues in the action, whether of fact or law, or both, may be
referred upon the written consent of the parties ; but either party shall 
have the right in an action at law, upon an issue of fact, to demand a
trial by jury.-Code oj 1881, § 248. 
§ 437. [382.] In what cases reference may be ordered without
consent. Where the parties do not consent, the court or judge may,
upon the application of either, direct a reference in all cases formerly cog­
nizable in chancery in which reference might be made : 
I. When the trial of an issue of fact shall require the examination of
a long account on either side, in which case the referees may be directed
to hear and decide the whole issue, or to report upon any specific ques­
tion of fact involved therein ; or 
2. When the taking of an account shall be necessary for the informs- ·
tion of the court, before judgment upon an issue of law, or for carrying a
judgment or order into effect; or 
3. When a question of fact, other than upon the pleadings, shall arise,
upon motion or otherwise, in any sta~ of the action ; or 
4 .. When it is necessary for the information of the court in a special
proceeding.-Code of 1881, § 249. 
§ 438. (383.] To whom reference may be ordered. A reference
may be ordered to any person or persons, not exceeding three, agreed
upon by the parties. If the parties do not agree, the court or judge may 
appoint one or more, not exceeding three.-Code OJ 1881, § 250. 
§ 439. [384.] Referees' qualifications. When the appointment of
referees is made by the court or judge, each referee shall be: 
1. Qualified as a juror as provided by statute. 
2. Competent as juror between the parties .
. 3. A duly admitted and practicing attomey.-Code oj 1881, § 251. 
§ 440. [385.] When and what challenges allowed. When the ref­
erees are chosen by the court, each party shall have the same right of 
challenge as to such referees, which shall be made and determined in the
same manner and with like effect as in the formation of juries, except
that neither party shall be entitled to a peremptorychallenge.-Code of 
1881, § 252. 
§ 441. (386.] Conduct of trial same as by court. Subject to the
limitations and directions prescribed in the order of reference, the trial
by referees shall be conducted in the same manner as a trial by the court.
They shall have the same power to grant adjournments, administer oaths,
preserve order, punish all violations thereof upon such trial, compel the
attendance of witnesses, and to punish them for non-attendance or refusal
to be sworn or testify, as is possessed by the court.-Code. of 1881, § 253. 
§ 442. [387.] Contents of referees' report. The report of the
referees shall state the facts found, and when the order of reference in­ 
cludes an issue of law, it shall state the conclusions of law separately
from the facts. The referees shall file with their report the evidence re­
ceived upon the trial. If evidence offered by either party shall not be ad­
mitted on the trial, and the party offering the same except to the decision
rejecting such evidence at the time, the exceptions shall be noted by the
referees, and they shall take and receive such testimony and file it with
the report. Whatever judgment the court may give upon the report, it
shall, when it appears that such evidence was frivolous and inadmissible,
require the party at whose instance it was taken and reported to pay all
costs and disbursements thereby incurred.-Code of 1881, § 254. 
Ferry v. King ce., 26 P. 537; 2 W. 337. Park v. Mighill 29 P. 556; 3 W. 737, 
§ 443. (388.] Motion on report. The report shall be filed with the
clerk. If it be filed in term time, either party may, within such time as
may be prescribed by the rules of the court, or by special order, move to 
set the same aside, or for judgment thereon, or such order or proceeding
as the nature of the case may require. If the report be filed in vacation
the like proceedings may be had at the next term following. Code of 
1881, § 255. . 
. § 444. [389.] Court may affirm, modify, or set aside report. The
court may affirm or set aside the report, either in whole or in part. If it
affirms the report, it shall give judgment accordingly. If the report be 
set aside, either in whole or in part, the court may make another order
of refereaee, as to all or so much of the report as is set aside, to the orig­ 
inal referees or others, or it may find the facts and determine the law 
itself and give judgment accordingly. Upon a motion to set aside a
report, the conclusions thereof shall be deemed and considered as the
verdict of the jury. Code of 1881, § 256. 
§ 445. Exception defined. An exception is a claim of error in a
ruling or decision of a court, judge or other tribunal or officer exercising
judicial functions, made in the course of an action or proceeding or after 
judgment therein.-Laws OJ 18931 p. 1111 § 1. 
§ 446. (39r.] No form neceBBary-When particulars required. No
particular form of objections or exceptions is required. The objection 
must be stated with so much of the evidence or other matter as is neces­
sary to explain it, and no more. But when the exception is to the ver­
dict or decision, upon the ground of the insufficiency of the evidence to
sustain it, the objection must specify the particulars in which such evi­
dence is alleged to be insufficient. Code of 1881, § 251-Laws of 1885-6, 
p. 70, § I. 
Brown & Co. v. Forest, 1 W. T., 201. City of Seattle v. Buzby, 2 W. T. 25, 3 P., 
18o. Smith v. United States, 1 W. T., 262. Oregon R. & N. Co. v. Galliher, 
2 W. T., 701 3 P., 615. Tolmie v .. Dean, I W. T., 46. Fox v. Territory, 2 
\V, T., 297, 5 P., 6o3. Yelm Jim v. W. T., 1 W., 547. 
§ 447'. When exception unnecessary. It shall not be necessary or
proper to fake or enter an exception to any ruling or decision mentioned
in section one of this act, which is embodied in a written judgment, order 
or journal entry in the cause. But this section shall not apply to the re­
port of a referee or commissioner, or to findings of fact or conclusions of
law in a report. or decision of a referee or commissioner, or in a decision of
a court or judge upon a cause or part of a cause, either legal or equitable 
tried without a jury.-Laws of 1893, p. 112, § 2. 
§ 448. Exceptions to report, findings, etc., may be oral or written,
and flied within flve days. Exceptions to the report of a referee or
commissioner, or to findings of fact or conclusions of law in a report or 
decision of a referee or commissioner, or in a decision of a court or judge
. upon a cause or part of a cause, either legal or equitable, tried without a 
jury, may be taken by any party, either by stating to the judge, referee
,or commissioner when the report or decision is signed, -that such party
excepts to the same, specifying the part or parts excepted to, (whereupon
the judge, referee or commissioner, shall note the exceptions in the margin
or at the foot of the report or decision); or by filing like written excep­
tions within five days after the filing of the report or decision, or, where
the report or decision is signed subsequently to the hearing, and in the
absence of the party excepting, within five days after the service on such
party of a copy of such report or decision, or of written notice of the filing
thereof. Laws of 1893, p. 112, § 3. 
§ 449. Exception to charge to jury. Exceptions to a charge to a
jury, or to a refusal to give as a part of such charge instructions requested 
in writing, may be taken by any party by stating to the court, after the
jury shall have retired to consider of their verdict, and, if practicable, 
before the verdict has been returned, that such party excepts to the same,
specifying, by numbers of paragraphs or otherwise, the parts of the charge
excepted to, and the requested instructions the refusal to give which is
excepted to; whereupon the judge shall note the exceptions in the min­
utes of the trial, or cause the stenographer, (if one is in attendance,) so to 
note the same. Laws of 1893, p. 11 2, § 4. 
Meeker v. Gardella, I \V. 139; 23 P. 837. See cases cited under section 409. 
§ 450. Exception not necessary after objection to evidence. Ex­
ceptions to any ruling upon an objection to the admission of evidence,
offered in the course of a trial or hearing, need not be formally taken, but 
the question put or other offer of evidence, together with the objection
thereto and the ruling thereon, shall be entered by the court, judge,
referee or commissioner, (or by the stenographer, if one is in attendance,)
in the minutes of the trial or hearing, and such entry shall import an 
exception by the party against whom the ruling is made. Latusof 1893, 
p. 112, § 5. 
§ 451. Exception in other cases to be noted. Exceptions to any
ruling or decision made in the course of a trial or hearing, or in the pro­ 
gress of a cause, except those to which it is provided in this act that no
exception need be taken and those to which some other mode of excep­
tion is in this act prescribed, may be taken by any party by stating to the
court, judge, referee or commissioner making the ruling or decision,
when the same is made, that such party excepts to the same ; whereupon
such court, judge, referee or commissioner shall note the exception in the
minutes of the trial, hearing or cause, or shall cause the stenographer (if 
one is in attendance) so to note the same.-Laws of 1893, p. 113, § 6. 
§ 452·. Exception reviewed on appeal or on motion for new trial. 
Alleged error in any order, ruling or decision to which it is provided in
this act that no exception need be taken, or in any report, finding of fact,
conclusion of law, charge, refusal to charge or other ruling or decision
which shall have been excepted to by any party as prescribed in this act,
shall be reviewed by the supreme court, upon an appeal taken by the par­
ty against whom any such ruling or decision was made, or in which he
has joined, from any other appealable order or from the final judgment in
the cause, where such error, if found to exist, would materially affect the
correctness of the judgment or order appealed from: Provided, The rul­
ing or decision, the alleged error in which is sought to be so reviewed,
together with the exception thereto if any, was a matter of record in the
cause in the first instance, or before the hearing. of the appeal has been
brought into record in the manner prescribed in this act. And any such
alleged error shall also be considered in the court wherein or by a judge
whereof the same was committed, upon the hearing and decision of a
motion for a new trial, a motion for judgment notwithstanding a verdict,
or a motion to set aside a referee's report or decision, made by a party 
against whom the ruling or decision to be reviewed was made, whether
the alleged erroneous ruling or decision is a part of the record or not,
where the alleged error, if found to exist, would materially affect the de­
cision of the motion. But no exception to any appealable order or to any
final judgment, shall be necessary or proper in order to secure a review 
of such order or judgment upon direct appeal therefrom.-Laws of 1893, 
p. 13, § 7. 
NoTB.-For the remainder of this act of 1893 relating to bills of exceptions and
statements of fact, see Title X. It is placed there as it more properly con­
cerns appeals. 
Emigh v. State Ins. Co., 3 W. 122; 27 P. 1o63. 
i 453. Definition of new trial. 
i 454. Upon what grounds granted.
~ 455. Grounds of motion may be stated aa in 
statute. 
i 456. When not granted because damages too 
small. 
§ 453. [399.] Definition of new trial. A new trial is a re-examina­
tion of an issue in the same court after a trial and decision by a jury, 
court or referees.-Code of 1881, § 275. 
§ 454. [ 400.] Upon. what grounds granted. The former verdict or
other decision may be vacated and a new trial granted, on the motion of 
the party aggrieved, for any of the following causes materially affecting
the substantial rights of such party : 
1. Irregularity in the proceedings of the court, jury, or adverse party,
or any order of the court, or abuse of discretion, by which such party was
prevented from having a fair trial. 
2. Misconduct of prevailing party or jury; and whenever any one or
more of the jurors shall have been induced to assent to any general or
special verdict to a finding on any question or questions submitted to the
jury by the court, other and different from his own conclusions, and ar­
rived at by a resort to the determination of chance or lot ; such miscon­
duct may be proved by the affidavits of one or more of the jurors. 
3. Accident or surprise which ordinary prudence could not have guarded
against. · 
4. Newly discovered evidence, material for the party making the appli­
cation, which he could not with reasonable diligence have discovered and
produced at the trial. 
5. Excessive damages, appearing to have been given under the influ­
ence of passion or prejudice. 
6. Error in the assessment of the amount of recovery, whether too
large or too small, when the action is upon a contract, or for the injury or
detention of property. 
7. Insufficiency of the evidence to justify the verdict or other decision,
or that it is against law. 
8. Error in law occurring at the trial and excepted to at the time by the
party making the application.-Code of 1881, § 276. 
Tolmie v. Dean, 1 W. T., 46. McKilver v. Manchester, 1 W. T., 255. Goodman
v. Cody, I W. T., 329. Newberg v. Farmer, I W. T., 182. Jones v. Jenkin,
3 W., 21, 27 P., roaa, Leschi v. Wash. Ter., 1 W. T., 14. Page v. Rodney, 
:z W., 461, 7 P., 895. 
CHAPTER XXXV. 
NEW TRIALS. 
• i 457. In what cues affidavits necessary. 
i 458. Notice ofinteution must be filed within
two days after verdict. 
I 459. Contents o( affidavit when newly dis­
covered evidence. 
§ 455. [401.J Grounds of motion may be stated as in statute. In
no case of motion for a new trial hereafter made in the courts of this ter- 
ritory shall it be necessary to specify the grounds thereof, otherwise than
in the language of section 276 (454] of the Code of Washington Territory, 
specifying the grounds upon which a motion for a new trial may be made.
Laws ef 1887-8, p. 30, § 1. 
§ 456. (402.] When not granted because damages too small. A 
new trial shall not be granted on account of the smallness of damages in
an action for an injury to the person or reputation, nor in any other action
where the damages shall equal the actual pecuniary injury sustained. 
Code of 1881, § 277. 
§ 457. (403.] In what cases affidavits necessary. The motion for a
new trial shall state the grounds or causes for which a new trial is asked, 
and if made for any of the causes mentioned in the first, second, third or
fourth subdivision of section two hundred and seventy-six (454], the
facts upon which it is based may be shown by affidavit. Code of 1881, 
§ 278. 
Lybarger v. State, 27 P. 448; 2 W. 562. Anderson v. State, 26 P. 267; 2 W. 183. 
§ 458. (404.] Notice of intention must be flied within two days
after verdict. The party intending to move for a new trial must, within
two days after the verdict of the jury, if the action was tried by a jury, or
after notice of the decision of the court or referee, ff the action was tried 
without a jury, file with the clerk and serve upon the adverse party a
notice of his intention, designating the grounds upon which the motion
will be made. If the motion is to be made upon affidavits, the moving
party must, within two days after serving the notice, or such further time
as the court in which the action is pending, or a judge thereof, may allow,
file such affidavit with the clerk, and serve a copy upon the adverse party,
who shall have two days to file counter affidavits, a copy of which must
be served upon the moving party. Laws of 1891, p. 102, § r , 
Jones v. Wiley, I W. T. 6o3. 
§ '459. (405.] Contents of affidavit ·where newly discovered evi­
dence. If the motion be supported by affidavits, and the cause be newly
discovered evidence, the affidavits of any witness or witnesses, showing 
what their testimony will be, shall be produced, or good reasons shown
for their non-production. Laws ef 1891, p. 103, § 2. 
l .¢2. In actions against several defendants. i 46<>. Definition of judgment. 
i 461. Against whom given-2xtent. 
CHAPTER XXXVI. 
JUDGMENTS IN GENERAL. 
§ 460. (406.] Definition of judgment. A judgment is a final deter­
mination of the rights of the parties in the action.-Code ef 1881, § 283. 
§ 46r. (407.] Against whom given- -Extent. Judgment may be
given for or against one or more of several plaintiffs, and for or against 
one or more of several defendants; and it may, when the justice of the
case requires it, determine the ultimate rights of the parties on each 
side, as between themselves.'-Code ef 1881, § 284. 
§ 462. (408.]In actions against several defendants. In an action
against several defendants, the court may, in its discretion, render judg- 
• 
ment against one or more of them, whenever a several judgment is
proper, leaving the action to proceed against the others.-Code of 1881, 
§ 285. 
McCoy v. Bell, 20 P.,595; 1 W., 504. Lowman & Hanford S. & P. Co., ex parle,
27 P., 232; 2 W., 427. 
I 465. Eff'ect ofnonsuitjudgment. I 463, When judgment of nonsuit may be en­
tered. 
i 464. Judgment on the merits in all other 
§ 463. (409.] When judgment of nonsuit may be entered. An
action may be dismissed, or a judgment of nonsuit entered, in the follow­ 
ing cases: 
1. By the plaintiff himself, at any time, either in term time or in vaca­
tion, before the jury retire to consider their verdict, unless set-off be in­
terposed as a defense, or unless the defendant sets up a counterclaim to
the specific property or thing which is the subject matter of the action. 
. 2. By either party, upon the written consent of the other.
3. By the court, when the plaintiff fails to appear on trial, and the de- 
fendant appears and asks for a dismissal. · ·
4. By the court, when, upon the trial and before the final submission 
of [tke J case, the plaintiff abandons it.
5. By the court, on the refusal or neglect of the plaintiff to make the 
necessary parties, after having been ordered by the court. 
6. By the court, on the application of some of the defendants, where
there are others whom the plaintiff fails to prosecute with diligence. 
7. By the court, for disobedience of the plaintiff to an order concerning
the proceedings in the action. 
8. By the court, upon motion of the defendant, when, upon the trial,
the plaintiff fails to prove a sufficient cause for the jury.-Code of 1881, 
§ 286. 
McDaniel v. Pressler, 29 P., 209; 3 W., 636. Ward v. Moorey, 1 W. T., 104.
Harrington v. Miller, 31 P.; 325; 4 W., 8o8. Mace v. Guddis, 3 W. T., 125;
1l P., 545. Waite v. Wingate, 30 P., 81; 4 W., 324; N. P. R.R. Co. v.
Holmes, 3 \V. T., 202; 18 P., 76. Burns v. Com. Bay, etc., Co., 30 P., 668; 4
W., 558; Sayward v. Cartoon. 23 P., 830; 1 W., 29. Tolmie v. Dean, 1 W. T., 46.
Cattel v. Furgeson, 28 P., 756; 3 W., 541. Somervillev. Johnson, 28 P., 373.
3 W., 141. Leibman v. McGraw, 28 P., 1107; 3 W., 520. Week v. Fremont
Mill Co., 3 W., 629; 29 P., 215. Scotland v. Scotland, 4 W., 118; 29 P., 930. 
§ 464. [410.] Judgment on the merits in all other cases. In every
case other than those mentioned in the last section, the judgment shall be 
rendered on the merits.-Code of 1881, § 287. 
Somerville v. Johnson, 28 P., 373; 3 W., 141. McDaniels v. Pressler, 29 P., 209;
3 w., 636. 
§ 465. (411.] Effect of nonsuit judgm~nt. When a judgment of
nonsuit is given, the action is dismissed; but such judgment shall not 
have the effect to bar another action for the same cause.-Code of 1881, 
§ 288. 
cases. 
CHAPTER XXXVII. 
JUDGMENT OF NONSUIT. 
~ 466. (412.] In what manner judgment given on failure to an­
swer. Judgment may be had if the defendant fail to answer to the com­
plaint, as follows : 
1. In any action arising on contract for the recovery of money only, the
plaintiff may file with the clerk proof of personal service of the summons
and complaint on one or more of the defendants. The court shall there­
upon enter judgment for the amount claimed, against the defendant or
defendants, or against one or more of the several defendants in the cases
provided for in section sixty eight [ 202]. Where the defendant, by his
answer, in any such action, shall not deny the plaintiff's claim, hut shall
set up a counterclaim amounting to less, than the plaintiff's claim, judg­
ment may be had by the plaintiff for the excess of said claim over the 
said counterclaim. 
2. In other actions the plaintiff may, upon the like proof, apply to the
court after the expiration of the time for answering, for the relief de­
manded in the complaint. If the taking of an account· or of the proof
of any fact be necessary to enable the court to give judgment, or to carry
the judgment into effect, the court may take the account or hear the
proof, or may, in its discretion, order a reference for that purpose. Where
the action is for the recovery of damages, in whole or in part, the court
may order the damages to be assessed by a jury ; or if to determine the
amount of damages, the examination of a long account be necessary, by
a reference as above provided. If the defendant give notice of appear­
ance in the action, before the expiration of the time for answering, he
shall be entitled to five days' notice of the time and place of application
to the court for the relief demanded in the complaint. 
3. In [an] action where the service of the summons was by publication,
the plaintiff, upon the expiration of the time for answering, may, upon
proof of service by publication, apply for judgment; and the court must
thereupon require proof of the demand mentioned in the complaint, and
must require the plaintiff or his agent to be examined on oath respecting
any payments that have been made to the plaintiff, or to any one for his
use on account of such demand, and may render judgment for the amount
which he is entitled to recover, or for such other relief as he may be entitled to.-Code of 1881, § 289. 
Curry v. Spokane, 27 P., 477; 2 W., 54. Part v. Parfit, 30 P., 329; 4 W., 373.
Dexter Horton v. Sparkman, 25 P., 1079; 2 W., 165. Bethel v. Robinson, 
30 P., 724; 4 W., 446. McCoy v. Bell, 20 P., 595; I W .. 504. Baker v.
Pruett, 3 W. T., 474-595; 19 P., 149. State v. Hunter, 30 P., 642; 4 W., 651.
Paxton v. Daniel, 23 P., 441; I W., 19. Sayward v. Carlson, 23 P., 830; 1
W., 29. Walla Walla, etc., Co. v. Budd, 2 W. T., 336; 7 P., 896. 
§ 467. [413.] Default may be set aside. The court may, in its dis­
cretion, before final judgment, set aside any default, upon affidavit showing 
good and sufficient cause, and upon such terms as may be deemed reason-
able.-Code of 1881, § 290. · 
pP., 
§ 468. (414.] Defendant may confess judgment in any case. On
the confession of the defendant, with the assent of the plaintiff or his at­ 
torney, judgment may be given against the defendant in any action be­
fore or after answer, for any amount or relief not exceeding or different
from that demanded in the complaint.-Code of 1881, § 291. 
§ 469. (415.] Bow corporations and minors may confe88. When
the action is against the ·territory, a county or other public corporation
therein, or a private corporation, or a minor, the confession shall be made 
by the person who at the time sustains the relation to such territory, cor­
poration, county or minor as would authorize the service of .a notice up­
on him ; or in the case of a minor, if a guardian for the action has been
appointed, then by such guardian ; in all other cases the confession shall
be made by the defendant in person.-Code of 1881, ~ 292. 
§ 470. (416.] Defendants jointly liable may confess for all. When
the action is upon a contract, and against one or more defendants jointly 
liable, judgment may be given on the confession of one or more defend­
ants, against all the defendants thus jointly liable, whether such
defendants have been served or not, to be enforced only against their
joint property and against the joint and separate property of the defend­
ant making the confession.-Code of 1881, § 293. 
§ 471. (417.] Confession and assent to be in writing and acknowl­
edged. The confession and assent thereto shall be in writing and sub­ 
scribed by the parties making the same, and acknowledged by each
before some officer authorized to take acknowledgments of deeds, Code 
of 1881, § 294. 
§ 472. (418.] Judgment without action, and tor debt due or to be­
come due. A judgment by confession may be entered without action,
either for money due or to become due, or to secure any person against 
contingent liability on behalf of the defendant, or both, in the manner
prescribed by this chapter.-Code of 1881, § 295. 
§ 473. (419.] Statement for judgment by confession. A statement
in writing shall be made, signed by the defendant and verified by his 
oath. to the following effect: 
1. It shall authorize the entry of judgment for a specified sum. 
2. If it be for money due or to become due, it shall state concisely the
facts out of which the indebtedness arose, and shall show that the sum
confessed to be due, is justly due or to become due. 
3. If it be for the purpose of securing the plaintiff against a contingent
liability, it shall state concisely the facts constituting the liability, and 
show that the sum confessed therefor does not exceed the same. Code of 
1881, § 296. 
§ 474. [420.] Oourt must approve sufficiency of statement. The
statement must be presented to the district court, or a judge thereof, and
if the same be found sufficient, the court or judge shall indorse thereon
an order that judgment be entered by the clerk; whereupon it may be 
filed in the office of the clerk, who shall enter a judgment for the amount
confessed, with costs. Execution may be issued and enforced thereon in 
the same manner as upon judgments in other cases.-Code of 1881, § 297. 
i 475. Parties may submit controversy without
action. 
§ 475. (421.] Parties may submit controversy without action. 
Parties to a question in difference which might be the subject of a.civil
action may, without action, agree upon a case containing the facts upon
which the controversy depends, and present a submission of the same to
any court which would have jurisdiction if an action had been brought.
But it must appear by affidavit that the controversy is real, and the pro­
ceedings in good faith to determine the rights of the parties. The court
shall thereupon hear and determine the case and render judgment thereon
as if an action were pending. Code of 18811 § 298. 
§ (476.) 422. Judgment thereon as in other cases. Judgment shall 
be entered in the judgment-book. as in other cases, but without costs for
any proceedings prior to the trial. The case, the submission and a copy 
of the judgment shall constitute the judgment roll. Code of 1881, § 299. 
§ [477.] 423. Judgments enforced as in other cases. The judg­
ment may be enforced in the same manner as if it had been rendered in
an action, and shall be in the same manner subject to appeal. Code of 
1881, § 300. 
i 4;8. All questions except title to real estate
may be submitted. 
i 479. Agreement to arbitrate must be in
writing. 
i 48o. Proceedings of arbitrators. 
CHAPTER XL. 
SUBMITTED CASES. 
CHAPTER XLI. 
ARBITRATiON AND AWARD. 
f 481. Arbitrators' fees, three dollars per day­
Five dollars fine for absence. 
I 482. Rxceptions to award.
I 483. Court may order amendment of award. 
I 476, Judgment thereon as in other cases. 
I 477- Judgment enforced as in other caaes. 
. I 484. Powers of arbitrators. 
i 485. Rules of evidence. 
i 486. Contempts punishable a11 in justices'
courts. 
~ 487. Costs to be taxed against losing
party. 
i 488. Award, when affirmed, has effect of
judgment. 
§ 478. [424.] All questions except titles to real estate may besub­
mitted. All persons desirous to end, by arbitration, any controversy, 
suit or quarrel, except such as respect the title to real estate, may submit
their difference to the award or umpirage of any person or persons mutu­
ally selected.-Code ef 1881, § 264. 
§ 479. [425.] .Agreement to arbitrate must be in writing. Said
agreement to arbitrate shall be in writing, signed by the parties, and may 
be by bond in any sum, conditioned that the parties entering into said
submission shall abide the award.-Code of 188r, § 265. 
§ 48o. [426.] Proceedings of arbitrators. The said arbitrators shall
be duly sworn to try and determine the cause referred to them, and a just 
award make out, under the hands and seals of a majority of them, agree­
ably to the terms of the submission. Said award, together with the
written agreement to submit, shall be sealed up by the arbitrators and de­
livered to the party in whose favor it shall be made, who shall deliver the
same, without breaking the seal, to the clerk of the superior court of the
district including the county wherein said arbitration is held, who shall
enter the same on record in his office. A copy of the award, signed by
said arbitrators, or a majority of them.vshall also be delivered to the party
in whose favor it is rendered] who shall, if the matter be not settled, serve
a copy of the same on the adverse party, and if no exceptions be filed
against the same within twenty days after such service, judgment shall 
be entered as upon the verdict of a jury, aD4 execution may issue thereon,
and the same proceedings [may be had] upon said award, with like effect
as though said award were a verdict in a civil 3:ction.-Laws of r89r, p.
104, § I. ;· 
Tacoma Co. v. Cumings, 3J·f,--'47, 5 W. 
§ 481. [427.] .Arbitrators' fees three dollars per day-Five dollars
fine for absence. The arbitrators chosen under the provisions of this chapter shall each be allowed three dollars per day, to be taxed with oth­
er costs of suit ; but if either party fail to appear on · the day agreed up­ 
on for the arbitrators to meet, said party shall be liable for all costs ac­
cruing that day unless bis absence was unavoidable, and shall be so
established to the satisfaction of said arbitrators. And any arbitrator
failing to attend on the day appointed, unless delayed by sickness or un­
avoidable accident, shall forfeit and pay the sum of five dollars to the
school fund of the county, to be recovered by action before a justice of
the peace, in the name of the county commissioners of the county.­ 
Code of 1881, § 267.
§ 482. [428.] Exception to award. The party against whom an 
. award may be made, may except in writing thereto for either of the fol-
lowing causes : 
1. That the arbitrator or umpire misbehaved themselves in the case. 
2. That they committed an error in fact or law. 
3. That the award was procured b.y corruption or other undue means.
=-Code of 18811 § 268. . · · .. 
Bachelder v. Wallace, CW. T., 107. 
§ 483. [429.] Court may order amendment of award. If upon ex­
ceptions filed, it shall appear to the said superior court that the arbitrators 
have committed error in fact or law, the court may refer the cause back
to said arbitrators, directing the amendment of said award forthwith, re­
turnable to said court, and on the failure so to correct said proceedings,
the court shall be possessed of the case and proceed to its determination. 
-Laws of 1891, p. 105, § 2. 
§ 484. [430.] Powers of arbitrators. Arbitrators, or a majority of
them, shall have power : 
1. To compel the attendance of witnesses duly notified by either party
and to enforce from either party the production of all such books, papers 
and documents as they may deem material to the cause. 
2. To administer oaths or affirmations to witnesses.
3. To adjourn their meetings from day to day, or for a longer time, and 
also from place to place, if they think }?roper.
4. To decide both the law and the .. fact. that may be involved in the 
cause submitted to them.-Code of 18Di, 3'270. 
§ 485. [431.] Rules of evidence. T.he~~A ,6 in force in this territory
relating to evidence and the manner of proe t~. the attendance of wit­
nesses, shall govern in arbitrations.-Code o -~~·, ,§ 2_71. 
§ 486. [432.] Contempts punishable as · juiµ-ce.' court. The law
governing procee for contempt, in th trial of:d\~es before justices 
of the peace, so f as e a ay be plicabfc(,sltaU apply to the
proceedings before rbitra s.--Co 189 , § 272. ••• • 
§ 487. [433.] Cos to be xed agai t losing part~ .. ·::{ii~ costs of
witnesses, and other f s in t case, shall . e taxed against. (Qe losing 
party; said fees-shall indorsed upon the a ard, and when· said-award
is affirmed as the jud t of the dist ict co , execution sliatr ~ue
therefor as for costs in civi ctions.- 18 1, § 273. • •• :• : 
§ 488. [434) A.ward, whe rmed, h ect of judgment. Stich 
award, when so affirmed, shall e · all respects like any other judgment
of the district court, and a tran n t of such judgment, or execution
issued thereon, re ed in the coun a ditor's office in the same manner
as other judgments, 11 be a 1 en up r 1 estate in said county.-Code 
ef 1881, § 274. 
I 48c). 
i 491·. 
. Judgment may include value and dam-
ages in actions of replevin. 
i 493. Ju ent to be entered in journal. 
! 494. Judgment roll, 
I 495. Indorsement on judgment roll. 
§ 489. [435.] Judgm tered ~in five days after ver-
dict. When a trial by j ad judgment shall be entered in 
conformity to the verdict five er the filing of the verdict,
unless a motion for a new trial s 11 have bee led, or unless the court
order the case to be reserved for a ument or further consideration, or
grant a stay of proceedings. In all her cases the judgment shall be 
entered on the day when it is given. Laws of 1891, p. 76, § 1. 
§ 490. [436.] Motion for new trial, etc=, aybe called up by either
party. When the case is reserved for argume tor further consideration, 
as mentioned in the last section, it may be ht by either party before
the court for argument.-Laws of 1891, p. 77, § 2. 
§ 491. [437.J Judgment for defendant in case of set-off. If a set­
off established at the trial exceed the plaintiff's demand so established, 
judgment for the defendant shall be given for the excess; or if it appear 
. . . 
that the defendant is entitled to any affirmative relief, judgment shall be
given accordingly.-Code of 1881, § 303. 
§ 492. [438.] Judgment may include value and damages in action
of replevin. In an action to recover the possession of personal property,
judgment for the plaintiff may be for the possession or value thereof,
in case a delivery cannot be had.iapd damages for the detention. If the 
property has been delivered to: fb¢. -plaintiff, and the defendant claim a
return thereof, judgment for. t.4e·.defendant may be for a return of the
property, or the value thereof., in: case a return cannot be had, and dam­
ages for taking and wit~~1ding the same.-Code of 1881, § 304 . 
See section 429. ; • '". • e • 
. . . 
i 499. Defendant -may answer u in other
i 4¢. Joint debtors not served may be sum­
moned after judgment. 
i 497. Contents of summons in such cues. 
CHAPTER XUII. 
PROCEEDINGS AGAINST JOINT DEBTORS. 
I 4g8. Affidavit must accompany summons. 
01 
§ 493. [439.] J.u~ents to be entered in journal. All judgments
shall be entered ej· tke clerk, subject to the direction of the court, in the 
journal, and sbqlf ·specify clearly the amount to be recovered, the relief
granted, or .othei·determination of the action.-Code of 1881, § 305. 
Eakin -v:~.~t~ith, 2 W. T. 112; 3 P. 838. 
§ 494,.':{~6.] Judgment roll. Immediately after entering the judg­
meat, the clerk shall attach the following papers in the case, which shall
constitute the judgment roll: 
, , 1, If the complaint has not been answered by any defendant and no
pleading has been filed by an intervenor, he shall attach together in the
order of their filing, issuing and entry, the complaint, summons and 
proof of service, and a copy of the entry of judgment. 
2. In all other cases he shall attach together in like manner the sum­
mons and proof of service, the pleadings, bill of exceptions, all orders
relating to change of parties, together with a copy of the entry of judg­
ment and all other journal entries or orders in any way involving the
merits and necessarily affecting the judgment.-Laws ef 1891, p. 77, § 3. 
§ 495. [447.] lndorsement on judgment roll. In all cases the clerk
shall attach upon the outside of the judgment roll a blank sheet of paper, 
upon which he shall indorse the name of the court, the title of the action, 
for whom judgment was given, and the amount or nature thereof and the 
date of its entry.-Laws of 1891, p. 77, § 4. 
cases. 
i 500. Pleadings in such cases. 
i 501. Trial-Verdict must not exceed amount
uncollected. 
§ 496. [440.] Joint debtors not served may be summoned after
judgment. When a judgment is recorded against one or more of several 
persons jointly indebted upon an obligation by proceeding as provided in section sixty-eight of this act, [202] such defendants who were not orig­
inally served with the summons, and did not appear to the action, may 
be summoned to show cause why they should not be bound by the judg­
ment, in the same manner as though they had been originally served
with the summons.-Code of 1881, § 3r4. 
§ 497. [441.] Contents of summons in such cases. The summons,
as provided in the last section, must describe the judgment, and require 
the person summoned to show cause why he should not be bound by it,
and must be served in the same manner and returnable within the same
time, as the original summons. It is not necessary to file a new com­ 
plaint.-Code of 1881, § 315. 
§ 498. [442.] Aflldavit must accompany summons. The summons
must be accompanied by an affidavit of the plaintiff, his agent, represent­
ative, or attorney, that the judgment, or some part thereof, remains un­ 
satisfied, and must specify the amount due thereon.-Code of 188_1, § 316. 
§ 499. [443.] Defendant may answer all in other cases. Upon the
service of such summons and affidavit, the defendant may answer within 
the time specified therein, denying the judgment, or setting up any de­
fense which may have arisen subsequently to the taking of the judgment,
or he may deny his liability on the obligation upon which the judgment
was rendered, except a discharge from such liability by the statute of
limitations.-Code of 1881, § 317. 
§ 500. [ 444.] Pleadings in such cases. If the defendant in his
answer deny the judgment, or set up auy defense which may have arisen 
subsequently, the summons, with the affidavit annexed, and the answer,
constitute the written allegations in the case; if he deny his liability on
the obligation upon which the judgment was rendered, a copy of the
original complaint and judgment, the summons with the affidavit an­
nexed, and the answer constitute such written allegations.-Code of 1881, 
§ 318. 
§ 501. [445.] Trial-Verdict must not exceed amount uncollected. 
The issue formed may be tried as in other cases, but when the defendant
denies in his answer any liability on the obligation upon which the judg­
ment was rendered, if a verdict be found against him, it must not exceed
the amount remaining unsatisfied on such original judgment, with interest
thereou.-Code of 1881, § 319. 
§ 502. [823.] Attorney's fees left to agreement-Allowances
termed coats. The measure and mode of compensation of attorneys and
counselors shall be left to the agreement, expressed or implied, of the 
parties, but there shall be allowed to the prevailing party upon the judg­ 
ment certain sums ~Y way of indemnity for his expenses in the action,
which allowances are termed.costs.-Code of 1881, § 505. 
§ 503. f803.] Attorneys' fees allowed in judgments on promissory
notes ancf mortgages. In all judgments on promissory notes and simi­ 
lar instruments in writing, whether secured by mortgage or not, an at­
torney's [fee] may be allowed when specially contracted to be paid by the
terms of the note or mortgage in any amount so specially contracted. - 
Laws of 1891, p. 83, § 1. 
§ 504. [824.] Prevailing party entitled ,o coats-except. In any
action in the superior court of Washington, the prevailing party shall be
entitled to his costs and disbursements ; but the plaintiff shall in no case
be entitled to costs taxed as attorneys' fees in actions within the jurisdic­
tions of a justice of the peace, when commenced in the superior court.­ 
Laws of 1889-90, p. 337, § I. 
Mead v. French, 29 P., 833, 4 W., 14. 
§ 505. [825.] Limitation of coats in personal actions. In an action
for an assault and battery, or for false imprisonment, libel, slander, ma­ 
licious prosecution, criminal conversation or seduction, if the plaintiff
recover less than ten dollars, he shall be entitled to no more costs of dis­
bursements than the damage recovered.-Code of 1881, § 508. 
Mead v. French, 29 P., 833, W. 4, 13. 
§ 506. [826.] Ooata allowed in but one action where defendants
sued separately. When several actions are brought on one bond, un­
dertaking, promissory note, bill of exchange, or other instrument in 
writing, or in any other case for the same cause of action. against several
parties, who might have been joined as defendants in the same action, no
costs or disbursements shall be allowed to the plaintiff in more than one
of such actions, which may be at his election, if the parties proceeded
against in the other actions were, at the commencement of the previous
action, openly within this territo~.-Code of 1881, § 509. 
§ 507. [827.] Defendant shall recover coats where plaintiff does
not. In all cases where costs and disbursements are not allowed to the
plaintiff, the defendant shall be entitled to have judgment in his favor 
for the same.-Code o_/ 1881, § 510.
§ 508. [828.] Separate defendants entitled to costs. In all actions 
where there are several defendants not united in interest, and making
separate defenses by separate answers, and the plaintiff fails to recover
judgment against all, the court may award costs to such defendants as
recover judgments in their favor, or either of them.-Code of 1881, § 511. 
§ 509. [829.] Amount of coats, as attorneys' fees. When allowed
to either party, costs, to be called the attorney fee, shall be as follows: 
1. In all actions settled before issue is joined, five dollars. 
2. In all actions where judgment is rendered without a jury, ten dol-
lars. · 
3. In all actions where judgment is rendered after impaneling a jury,
fifteen dollars. 
4. In all actions removed to the supreme court and settled before argu­
ment, ten dollars. 
5. In all actions where .judgment is rendered in the supreme court after
argument, fifteen dollars.-Code of 1881, § 512. 
Brown v. Winehill, 29 P., 927; 4 W., gS. 
§ 510. [830.] Diaburaementa--Coat bill to be fl.led within ten days. 
The prevailing party, in addition to allowance for costs, as provided in
the last section, shall also be allowed for all necessary disbursements, in­
cluding the fees of officers allowed by law, the fees of witnesses, the
necessary expenses of taking depositions by commission or otherwise, and
the compensation of referees, The disbursement shall be stated in detail
and verified by affidavit, which shall be filed with the clerk of the court
within ten days after the judgment.-Code of 1881, § 513. 
Brown v. Winehill, 29 P., 927; 4 W., gS. State v. Friedrich, 28 P., 747; 3 W., 
418. 
§ 511. [831.] Referee's fees five dollars per day. The fees of ref­
erees shall be five dollars to each, for every day necessarily spent in the
business of reference, and twenty cents per folio for writing testimony ; 
but the parties may agree in writing upon any rate of compensation, and
thereupon such rate shall be allowed.-Code of 1881, § 514. 
Parks v. Mighall, 29 P., 556; 3 W., 737, 
§ 512. [832.] Ooata on postponement of trial. When an applica­
tion shall have been made to a court or referees to postpone a trial, the 
payment to the adverse party of a sum not exceeding ten dollars, besides
the fees of witnesses, may be imposed as the condition of granting the 
postponement.-Code of 1881, § 515.
§ 513. [833.] Plaintiff must pay ooats if recovery does not exceed 
tender. When, in an action for the recovery of money, the defendant
alleges in his answer that, before the commencement of the action, he
tendered to the plaintiff the full amount to the which he is entitled, in
such money as by agreement ought to be tendered, and thereupon brings
into court, for the plaintiff, the amount tendered, and the allegation be
found true, the plaintiff shall not recover costs, but shall pay them to the
defendant.-Code· of 1881, § 516. · 
§ 514. [834.] Bame where amount is deposited. If the defendant,
in any action pending, shall at any time deposit with the clerk of the 
court, for the plaintiff, the amount which he admits to be due, together
with all costs that have accrued, and notify the plaintiff thereof, and such
plaintiff shall refuse to accept the same in discharge of the action, and
shall not afterwards recover a larger amount than that deposited with the
clerk, exclusive of interest and cost, he shall pay all costs that may
accrue from the time such money was so deposited.-Code of 1881, § 517. 
§ 515. [835.] Costs in justice courts on appeal. In all civil actions
tried before a justice of the peace, in which an appeal shall be taken to 
the district court, and the party appellant shall not recover a more favor­
able judgment in the district court than before the justice of the peace,
such appellant shall pay all costs.-Code of 1881, § 518. 
§ 516. [836.] Costs against guardian of infant plaintiff. When
costs are adjudged against an infant plaintiff, the guardian or person by
whom he appeared in the action shall be responsible therefor, and pay- . 
ment may be enforced by execution.-Code of 1881, § 519. 
§ 517. [837.] Costs in cases of executors, etc. In action[s] prose­
cuted or defended by an executor, administrator, trustee of an express. 
trust, or a person expressly authorized by statute, costs shall be recovered
as in an action by or against a person prosecuting in his own right, but
such costs shall be chargeable only upon or collected of the estate of the
party represented, unless the court shall direct the same to be paid by the
plaintiff or defendant personally for mismanagement or bad faith in such
action or defense.-Code of 1881, § 520. 
§ 518. [838.] .Assignee after action begun is liable for costs. 
When the cause of action, after the commencement-of the action, by as­
signment, or in any other manner, becomes the property of. a person not
a party thereto, and the prosecution or defense is thereafter continued,
such person shall be liable to the costs in the same manner as if he were
a party,' and payment thereof may be enforced by execution.-Code of 
1881, § 52 I. 
§ 519. [839.] State and county liable for costs. In all actions prose­
cuted .in the name and for the use of the territory, or in the name and 
for the use of any county, the territory or county shall be liable for costs
in the same case and to the same extent as private parties. -Code of 1881, 
§ 522.
State v. Super. Ct. Yakima Co., 29 P., 764; 4 W., 30. 
§ 520. [840.] Costs on revisory proceedings. When the decision of
a court of inferior jurisdiction, in an action or special proceeding, is 
brought before the supreme court or a district court for review, such pro­
ceedings shall, for purpose of costs, be deemed an action at issue upon a
question of law from the time the· same is brought into the supreme
court or district court, and costs thereon may be awarded and collected in
such manner as the court shall direct, according to the nature of the case. 
-Code of 1881, § 523. 
Burrichter v. Cline, 28 P., 367; 3 W., 135. 
§ 521. [841.] Costs in supreme court-When discretionary. In the
following cases the costs of an appeal to the supreme court shall be in 
the discretion of the court : 
1. When a new trial shall be ordered. 
2. When a judgment shall be affirmed in part and reversed in part.­
Code of 1881, § 524. 
King County v. Collins, 1 W., 46g. Dodd v. Bowles, 3 W. T., 11; 13 P., 681. 
Boyer v.•Boyer, 4 W., So; 29 P., 981. Cogswell v. W. St. & N. E. Elect. Ry 
ce., 31 P., 411. 
§ 522. (842.] Discretionary when not prescribed. In all actions
and proceedings other than those mentioned in this chapter, where no pro­ 
vision is made for the recovery of costs, they may be allowed or not, and 
if allowed, may be apportioned between the parties, in the discretion of
the court.-Code of 1881, § 525. 
• § 523. [843.] Retaxation of costs. Any party aggrieved by the tax­
ation of costs by the clerk of the court may, upon application, have the
same retaxed by the court in which the action or proceeding is had. - 
Code of 1881, § 526. 
Huntington v. Blakeney, I W. T., III. 
§ 524. [844.] Security for coats in case of non-residents. When a
plaintiff in an action resides out of the district or county, or is a foreign 
corporation, security for the costs and charges which may be awarded
against such. plaintiff may be required by the defendant. When required,
all proceedings in the action shall be stayed until a bond, executed by
two or more persons, be filed with the clerk, conditioned that they will
pay such costs and charges as may be awarded against the plaintiff by
judgment, or in the progress of the action, not exceeding the sum of two
hundred dollars. A new or additional bond may be ordered by the court
or judge, upon proof that the original bond is insufficient security, and
proceedings in the action stayed until such new or additional bond be ex­
ecuted and filed. The plaintiff may deposit with the clerk the sum of 
two hundred dollars in lieu of a bond.-Code of 1881, § 527. 
Burrichter v. Cline, 28 P., 367; 3 W. 135. Newberg v. Farmer, I W. T., 182.
. Swift v. Stine, 3 W., 518; 19 P., 63. 
§ 525. Fees of ofBcen relating to actions. The several officers here­
inafter enumerated shall be entitled to collect the fees hereinafter provided 
for their official services, towit : 
1. For sheriff. 
I. For service of each summons and complaint and return thereon, on
each defendant, beside mileage $ 
2. For levying each writ of attachment or writ of execution on real or
personal property, besides mileage . 
3. Fofe:r;:i~en~~~aff:st:~ :!~!~~~~.":. ~~~-~e. ~-~ -~~ r: ~~~ 
4. For each bail bond. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ....
5. Serving writ of possession without the aid of the county, besides 
mileage .
6. Serving writ of possession with the aid of the county, besides mileage
7. Executing writ of inquiry and returning the same, besides mileage.
8. For copy of a~y complaint, notice, writ or process necessary to com­ 
plete service, per iono. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ...
9. For serving each subpc:ena, on each person served, besides mileage. 
10. For summoning each juror, besides mileage . 
II. For serving declaration in ejectment and return, besides mileage .
12. For serving scire facias, for each defendant, besides mileage .
13. For brin~ng up a person 011 a writ of habeas corpus, besides mileage
14. For making a deed of land sold on execution, decree or order of 
court, to be paid by grantee .
15. Posting each notice, besides mileage. . . . . . . . . .
16. For each mile necessarily traveled in going to and returning from 
the place of service in any case. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .....
17. Percenta~e on all moneys actually made and paid to the sheriff on 
execution or order of sale, under one thousand dollars, two per
cent um. 
18. Percentage on all sums over one thousand dollars, one per centum. 
2. For constables. 
Constables shall be allowed the same fees that are paid to the sheriff
for a similar service. 
6o 
6o 
8o
50 
I 50 
2 00
I 00 
IO 
25
25 
8o
8o
8o 
3 00 
25 
IO 
3. For jurors. 
1. Each grand and petitjuror shall be allowed for each day's attend-
ance on a court of record , ·. . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 oo 
2. Talesman serving as a petit juror, each trial, when he may be de-
tained more than one day, per day. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 oo 
3. Every day's. attendance upon a justice of the peace court. . . . . . . . . . . 2 oo
4. Serving on inquest. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 oo
5. Mileage each way, per mile............................. 10 
4. For witnesses. 
1. Witnesses in all of the courts of the state shall receive, besides
mileage at ten cents per mile each way, for each day's attendance 2 oo 
-Laws of 1893, p. 422, § I.* 
5. For clerks. 
The tees ot clerks of the superior courts specified in section one of
this·act shall not be applicable to civil actionjs] and proceedings
other than probate causes, but instead thereof the parties to such
civil actions and proceedings shall pay to the clerk of the supe­
rior court of the proper county for the use of the county, the sun­
dry clerk's fees herembelow prescribed, and it shall be the duty
of such clerks to collect such fees, for the use of the county, at or
prior to the times hereinbelow prescribed for the payment of th~
same, respectively; that is to say: 
The plaintiff or other party instituting any such action or proceed­
ing shall pay when the cause is entered in the court, or when the
.first paperon his part is filed therein, a fee of four dollars $4 oo 
The defendant or other adverse party, or any one or more of several
defendants or other adverse or intervening parties appearing sei:
arately from the others, shall pay, when his or their appearance is
entered in the cause, or when the first paper on his or their partis
filed therein, a fee of two dollars. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 oo 
When no issue of fact is joined in the cause and no jud~ent other
than a dismissal or discontinuance without trial of an issue of fact
is rendered, no further fee need be paid. Where, after an issue of
fact has been joined, the cause is dismissed or discontinued
without trial of such issue, the party causing such dismissal or
discontinuance to be entered shall pay, at the time of the entry
thereof, a further fee of one dollar. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I oo 
If a judgment other than a dismissal or discontinuance is rendered,
the party obtaining the same shall pay, at the time of the entry
thereof, a further fee as follows : 
1. Where judgment is rendered without the taking of proof of any fact
pleaded, 
(a) If no adverse party has appeared in the cause, two dollars, 2 oo
tb) Or, if an adverse party has appealed [appeared], three dol- 
lars.............. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .•. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 oo 
2. Where the judgment is rendered upon proof taken, but without
assessment of damages by a jury, and in a case other than for fore- ·
closure of a lien or mortgage, or partition of real estate, 
(a) If no adverse party has appeared in the cause, three dollars, 3 oo
(b) Or, if the adverse partyhas appeared, five dollars.......... 5 oo 
3. Where the judgment is rendered upon an assessment of damages
by a jury, no adverse party having appeared in the cause, five
dollars . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 oo 
4. Where judgment is rendered after appearance by adverse party and
a trial by jury, or by the court or a judge, referee or commission­
ers thereof, in a cause other than for foreclosure of a lien or mort-
gage, or J.>artition of real estate, six dollars..... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 oo 
5. Where the Judgment is rendered in an action for the foreclosure of
a lien or mortgage, or the petition [partition] of real estate, 
(a) If no adverse party has appeared in the cause, six dollars, 6 oo 
(b) Or, if an adverse party has appeared, eight dollars. . . . . . . . 8 oo 
In addition to the fees prescribed in this section any party ordering a
final record to be made in a cause, other than probate, affecting the title
to real estate, or ordering any files or records in a cause to be transcribed
and certified for the purposes of an appeal, or for any other purpose,
shall pay clerk's fees for such recording or transcribing, when he orders
the same done, at the rate of fifteen cents for each folio of matter to be
recorded or ten cents for each folio of matter to be transcribed, beside
twenty-five cents for any certificate required to any such transcript: Pro­
vided, That in case of transcripts such party may himself furnish to the
clerk a transcript of any matter that he may desire to have certified, and
in such case the clerk's fee to be paid for comparing the transcript fur­
nished with the original and certifying the same shall be one-half the
amount per folio above prescribed, beside the full fee above prescribed for
the certificate. The fees prescribed in this section shall be in full for all
services performed by the clerk of the superior courts in the progress of
civil actions and proceedings other than probate causes, from the begin­
ning thereof down to and including the entry, collection and satisfaction
of final judgment therein, and including all proceedings in open court,
and all entries, :filings and recording therein, except for_ the recording and
transefibing for which special fees are prescribed in this section: Pro­
vided, That this section shall apply only to actions and proceedings begun
after this act shall take effect.-Laws of 1893, p. 424, § 2. 
§ 526. (3029.] Witness entitled to fees and mileage. Witnesses in
civil cases shall be entitled to receive, upon demand, their fees for one 
day's attendance, together with mileage going to the place where they
are required to attend, if such demand is made to the officer or person
serving the subpcena at the time of service.-(ode of 1881, § 2100. 
§ 527. [3024.] No fees allowed attorney as witness. No attorney
in any case shall be allowed any fees as a witness in such case.-Code of 
1881, § 2095. 
§ 528. [3022.] Polio, one hundred words-Piling includes certifi­
cate. The term "folio" when used as a measure for computing fees or
compensation, shall be construed to mean one hundred words, counting 
every two figures necessarily used as a word. Any portion of a folio,
when in the whole draft or paper there should not be a complete folio,
and when there shall be an excess over the last folio exceeding a quarter,
it shall be computed as a folio. The filing of a paper shall be construed
to include the certificate of the same.-Code of 1881, § 2093. 
§ 529. [3023.] Mileage only for moat distant service. When any
sheriff, constable or coroner serves more than one process in the same
cause or on the same person not requiring more than one journey from 
his office, he shall receive mileage only for the most distant service.­
Code of I 88 1, § 2094. 
• Tbe bracketed numbers for the remainder of thle chapter arc from Vol. I of Hill's code. 
§ 530. Mileage of officers-Bow computed. Mileage of officers who
are required to reside at the county seat, shall be computed from the
court house of the county, and every portion of a mile shall be computed
as one mile. Mileage shall be allowed as follows : There shall be but
one mileage in the summons and complaint in any action, and that shall
be computed on all the miles actually and necessarily traveled in the ser­
vice of the same, on the defendant or defendants in the action. Four (4) 
names of witnesses may be inserted by the plaintiff or defendant, in one
subpeena, and only one mileage shall be charged for the service of such
subpoena, and that shall be allowed for the number of miles actually and
necessarily traveled in serving said subpcena, There shall be but one
mileage allowed for the service of a warrant, or other process, no matter
how many defendants there may be named in the same, and said mileage
shall be for the miles actually and necessarily traveled in serving the
same. There shall be but one mileage allowed for the service of a venire
for a grand or petit jury, and that shall be for the miles actually and
necessarily traveled in service of the same: P,ovided, That Whatcom
county shall be exempt from the operation of this act.-Laws of 1885-6, 
p. 159, § I, 
§ 531. [3027.] Pees where none are provided. Each and every officer
who shall be called on or required to perform service for which no fees
or compensation are provided for in this chapter, shall be allowed fees 
similar and equal to those allowed him for services of the same kind for
which allowance is made herein.-Code of 1881, § 2og8. 
§ 532. [3028.] All fees in advance when demanded or no offlcjal act
required. All fees are invariably due in advance where demanded by 
the officer required to perform any official act, and no officer shall be re­
quired to perform any official act unless his fees are paid when he de­
mands the same : Provided, This section shall not apply when the officer
performs any official act for his county or the territory.-Code of 1881, § 
2099. 
§ 533. [3030.] Itemized bill for services rendered. All officers
shall, when requested so to do, make out a bill of their fees in every case, 
and for any services, specifying each particular item thereof, and receipt
the same when it is paid, which bill of fees shall always be subject to ex­
amination and correction by the several courts ; and any officer who re­
fuses or declines to comply with the requirements of this section shall for­
feit his fees in every case.-Code of 1881, § 2102. 
l 534. Execution docket. 
~ 535. Clerk shall enter transcript. 
e 536. Index to execution docket. 
e 537. What abstract shall contain. 
i 538. Other entries in execution docket. 
~ 539. Book of judgments in auditor's office. 
e 540. Clerk sh11.ll keep book of levies. 
CHAPTER XLV. 
LIEN OF JUDGMENTS.* 
i 541. Judgment a lien for five years-When
lien begins. 
f 542. Judgments from justice courts. 
f 543. Transcripts of same. 
i 544. How satisfied-Fifty dollars penalty. 
f 545. Judgment to bear Jegal rate of interest­
.Except. 
i 546. Existing liens to continue. 
e 547. Appeal or stay of execution does not af­
fect lieu. 
§ 534. (448.] Execution docket. Every clerk shall keep in his of­
fice a well-bound book, to be called the execution docket, which shall be 
a public record, and open during the usual business hours to all persons
desirous of inspecting it.-Code of 1881, § 307. 
§ 535. Clerk shall enter transcript. It shall be the duty of the
county clerk to enter in his execution docket any duly certified abstract
or transcript of any judgment of any of the courts mentioned in this act, 
and he shall index the same in the same manner as judgments originally
rendered in the superior court of the county of which he is clerk.-Laws 
of 1893, p. 66, § 5· 
§ 536. Index to execution docket. It shall 'be the duty of the coun­
ty clerk to keep a proper record index, both direct and inverse, of any 
and all judgments, abstracts or transcripts of judgments in his office, and
all renewals thereof, and such index shall refer to each party against
whom the judgment is rendered or whose property is affected thereby,
[ which index] together with the records of said judgments, shall be open
to public inspection during regular office hours.-Laws of 1893, p. 66, 
§ 6. 
NoTE.-The corresponding section from the code of 1881 is given below as the
act of 18g3 did not expressly repeal it. 
[452.] The clerk shall prefix to the execution docket a full and correct alphabetical
index, both direct and inverse, containing the names of all persons parties to judg­
ments, plaintiffs and defendants, in separate columns.-Code of 1881, ~ 311. 
§ 53 7. What abstract shall contain. An abstract of a judgment
as provided for in this act shall contain : 
1. The name of the party or parties in whose favor the judgment was
rendered. 
2. The name of the party or parties against whom the judgment was
rendered. 
3. The date of the .rendition of the judgment .
. 4. The amount for which the judgment was rendered, and in the fol- 
lowing manner, viz. : Principal, $ ; interest, $. ; costs,
f, ; total, $ .-Laws of 1893, p. 66, § 3. 
§ 538. [451.] Other entries in execution dockets. He shall leave
space on the same page, if practicable, with each case, in which he shall 
enter, in the order in which they occur, all the proceedings consequent to
the judgment in said case until its final satisfaction, including the time
when and to what county the execution is issued, and when returned, and
the return or substance thereof. When the execution is levied on
personal property which is returned unsold, the entry shall be : '' Levied
(noting the date) on property not sold." When any sheriff shall furnish
the clerk with a copy of any levy upon real estate on any judgment the
minutes of which are entered in his execution docket, the entry shall be:
" Levied upon real estate," noting the date, and shall refer to the page
upon the book of levies where the same is entered, as is hereinafter pro­
vided. When any execution issued to any other county is returned levied
upon real estate in such county, the entry in the docket shall be :
'' Levied on real estate of --, in -- county," noting the date, county,
and defendant whose estate is levied upon, and when the money is made,
or any part thereof, the amount and time when made shall be entered;
also, when a writ of error has been taken, or the judgment is appealed,
modified, discharged, or in any manner satisfied, the facts in respect
thereto shall be entered. The parties interested may also assign or dis·
charge such judgment on such execution docket. When the judgment
is fully satisfied in any way, the clerk shall write the word "satisfied,"
in large letters across the face of the entry of such judgment.-Coa'e OJ 
1881, § 310. 
§ 539. [453.] Book of judgmeJits in auditor's ofBce. The auditor
of each county shall keep in his office a well-bound book, which shall be a 
public record, open to inspection at all reasonable hours, in which he
shall enter all transcripts of judgments from the supreme or district courts
presented to him for that purpose, and when a judgment is satisfied, he
shall write across the face, in large letters, the word "satisfied."-Code of 
1881, § 312.
§ 540. [ 454.] Clerk shall keep book of levies. The clerk shall also 
keep in his office a well bound book, to be called a book of levies, which
shall be a public record, and open during the usual business hours to all
persons desirous of inspecting the same, in which he shall enter all levies
upon real estate in his county, when delivered to him by the sheriff, as
provided by law. An alphabetical index shall be prefixed to the book of
levies, containing the names of all persons upon whose real estate such
levies have been made, and when such levies are discharged in any
manner, au entry thereof shall be made in the margin of the book of levies
where the levy is recorded.-Code of 1881, § 313. 
§ 541. Judgments-A lien for five years-When lien begins. The
real estate of any judgment debtor, and such as he may acquire, shall be 
held and bound to satisfy any judgment of the district or circuit court of
the United States, if rendered in this state, or of the superior or supreme
court; or any judgment of a justice of the peace for the period of five (.c;) 
years from the day on which such judgment was rendered, and such
judgments shall be a lien thereupon, to commence as follows : Judgments
of the superior court of the county in which real estate of the judg­
ment debtor is situated, from the date of the entry thereof; judgments
of the district or circuit courts of the United States, if rendered in this
state; judgments of the supreme court; judgments of the superior court
of any county other than the county in which said judgment was ren­
dered, and judgments of a j usticc of the peace from the time of the fil­
ing and indexing of a duly certified transcript or abstract of such j udg­
meuts, as provided by this act, with the county clerk of the county in
which said real estate is situated.-Laws of 1893, p. 65, § 1. 
McMillan v. Mann, 1 W., 26; 23 P., 441. 
§ 542. Judgements from justice courts. Any judgment of any
justice of the peace of any county in this state, shall become a lien upon 
any real estate of the judgment debtor, and such as he may acquire in
that county wherein said judgment was rendered by the filing of a duly
certified transcript from the docket of said justice in the county clerk's
office of said county wherein said judgment was rendered, and upon such
filing said judgment shall become to all intents and purposes a judgment
of said superior court of said county, said judgment of said justice of
the peace shall become a lien upon the real estate of the judgment debtor
and such as he may acquire in any county other than that in which the
same was rendered by the filing in the office of the county clerk of that
county a duly certified abstract of the record of said judgment, from the
office of the county clerk of that county in which the certified transcript
of the said judgment of said justice of the peace was originally filed.­ 
Laws of 1893, p. 65, § 2. 
§ · 543. Transcripts of same. A transcript of a judgment of a justice
of the peace provided for by this act shall contain an exact copy of the 
judgment from the justice's docket. -Laws oJ 18931 p. 66, § 4. 
§ 544. Bow satisfled-Pifty dollars penalty. When any judgment
shall be paid and satisfied, the satisfaction shall be noted upon the records
thereof in the execution docket as satisfied, giving the date of such satis­ 
faction, and when the same shall be signed by the judgment creditor or
his attorney the lien thereof against said real estate shall be satisfied and
discharged. *If he fail to do so within sixty days after having been re­
quested in writing so to do, he shall forfeit to the defendant the sum of 
fifty dollars.-Laws o/ 1893, p. 66, § 7; 1889-90, p. 98, § 3. 
[458.] When the amount due on an7 judgment is paid off or satisfied in full, the 
plaintiff, or those legally acting for him, must acknowledge satisfaction thereof in
the margin of the record of the judgment, or by the execution of an instrument in
writing referring to the judgment, acknowledged and filed in the office of the audi­
tor or recorder in every county where the judgment is a lien.-Laws of 188g-go, 
p. gS, 9 3. 
§ 5-i,5. [459.] Judgments to bear legal rate of interest, except. 
Judgments shall bear the legal rate of interest from date thereof, except
when rendered upon an express· contract in writing wherein a different 
rate of interest is agreed upon by the parties, in which case the judgment
shall, until paid and satisfied, bear the same rate of interest specified in 
such written contract.-Code ef 1881, § 320. 
See laws of 18g3, p. 291 changing the legal rate of interest to eight per cent.
Section 4 reads: Judgments shall bear the legal rate of interest from date of
the entry thereof. 
§ 546. Existing liens to continue. All judgments which are liens
upon real estate by reason of their having been filed in any county audi­ 
tor's office, shall continue to be liens thereupon in the manner now pro­
vided by law.-Laws of 1893, p. 67, § 8. 
McMillan v. Mau, 23 P., 441; 1 W., 26. 
§ 547. [461.] Appeal or stay of execution does not affect lien. An
appeal to the supreme court, writ of error, or stay of execution shall not
affect any existing lien; and in all cases of an appeal or writ of error, the 
date of final judgment in the supreme court shall be the time from which
said five years shall commence to run. Personal property shall only be
held from the time it is actually levied upon. Code o/ 1881, § 322. 
CHAPTER XLVI. 
REVIVAL OF JUDGMENTS. 
f 548. Motion to revive-Notice to be served as
i 549. If motion granted lien continues for fh·e
years. summons-Proceedings thereafter. 
§ 548. [462.l Motion to revive-Notice to be served as summons­
Proceedings tnereafter. If any judgment shall remain unsatisfied, in
whole or in part, at the end of five years after the date of its rendition,
the lien thereof may be revived and continued as in this section provided: 
1. The judgment creditor, his assignee, or the party to whom said judg­
ment is due and payable, shall file a motion with the clerk of the court
where judgment is entered, to revive and continue the lien of the same,
with leave to issue an execution. The motion shall state the names of
the parties to the judgment, the date of its entry, the amount claimed
to be due thereon, or the particular property, of which the possession
was thereby adjudged to such party, remaining undelivered. The 
motion shall be subscribed and verified in the same manner as an original
complaint. 
2. At any time after filing such motion, the party may cause notice to
be served on the judgment debtor in like manner and with like effect as a
summons. Said notice shall be attached· to a copy of said motion by the
clerk of the court, and be served by the sheriff or other officer as an origi­
nal summons. It shall cite the judgment debtor to appear and show cause
why the said motion should not be allowed. The time in which the judg­
ment debtor shall be required to appear, shall be the same as is prescribed
for answer to a complaint, and the law applicable to service of a summons
shall apply to the service of such notice. In case the judgment debtor be
dead, the notice may be served upon his legal representatives. 
3. The judgment debtor, or in case of his death his representatives, may
file an answer or demurrer to such motion within the time allowed by law
to answer a complaint, alleging any defense to such motion which may
exist. If no answer be filed within the time prescribed, the motion shall
be allowed as of course. The moving party may demur or reply to the
answer. The pleadings shall be subscribed and verified, and the proceed­
ings concluded as in original actions. 
4. The word "representatives," in this section, shall be deemed to include
any or all of the persons in whose possession property of the judgment
debtor may be which is liable.to be taken and sold or delivered in satisfac­
tion of the execution, and not otherwise. 
5. The order shall specify the amount due upon such unsatisfied judg­
ment for which execution is to issue, or the particular property possession
of which is to be delivered; it shall be entered in the journal and docketed
as a judgment, and a final record shall be made of the proceedings in the
same manner as ajudgment.-Code of 1881, § 323. 
Bums v. Conner, 23 P., 836; I W., 6. 
§ 549. (463.] If motion granted, lien continues for five years. 
Such motion shall not be granted unless it be established by oath of the
party, or other satisfactory proof, that the judgment, or some part thereof,
remains unsatisfied. The order of the court granting such leave shall
operate as a revival of the judgment for the amount found due at the time
of such revival, and the same shall be and continue a lien upon real estate
of the judgment debtor for a period of five years from and after the date of
such order, in like manner with the original judgment: Provided, That a
transcript thereof shall, within twenty days, be filed in the office of the.
county auditor of the county where the lands lie of such judgment debtor,
or said lien shall be suspended till such transcript be filed. Revived judg­
ments shall bear the same interest and be in all respects similar to original
judgments as to lien and enforcement of collection: Provided, ltowever, That
no judgment shall be revived or continued unless proceedings for such re­
vival or continuance shall be commenced within six years after the date of
its rendition: Provided further, That this act shall not apply to any judg­
ment now in existence until one year from the time this act takes effect.­ 
Laws of 1891, p. 165, ~ 1. 
§ 550. [1393.] Por what causes vacated or modified. The district
court in which a judgment has been rendered, or by which, or the judge
of which, a final order bas been made, shall have power after the term at 
which such judgment or order was made to vacate or modify such judg­
ment or order : 
r , By granting a new trial for the cause within the time and in the
manner, and for any of the causes prescribed by the sections relating to
new trials. 
2. By a new trial granted in proceedings against defendant served by
publication only as prescribed in section sixty-seven [201]. 
3. For mistakes, neglect or omission of the clerk or irregularity in ob­
taining a judgment or order. 
4. For fraud practiced by the successful party in obtaining the judg­
ment or order. 
5. For erroneous proceedings against a minor person of unsound mind,
when the condition of such defendant does not appear in the record, nor
the errors in the proceedings. 
6. For the death of one of the parties before the judgment in the action.
1~ For unavoidable casualty or misfortune preventing the party from 
prosecuting or defending. · 
8. For error in a judgment shown by a minor, within twelve months
after arriving at full age.-Code of 1881, § 436. 
Hawkes v. Votaw, 23 P., 442; 1 W., 70. Whidby Land Co. v. Nyer, 31 P., 52. 
N. P. Ry. Co. v. Black, 28 P., 538; 3 W., 327. Johnson v. Gregory, 29 P.,
831; 4 W., 109. 
§ 551. [1394.] In what cases by motion and within one year. 
The proceedings to. vacate or modify a judgment or order for mistakes or
omissions of the clerk, or irregularity in obtaining the judgment or order,
shall be by motion served on the adverse party, or on his attorney in the
action, and within one year.-Laws of 1891, p. 44, § 1. 
§ 552. [1395.] When verified petition required-Its contents. The
proceedings to obtain the benefit of subdivisions two, three, four, five, 
six and seven of section [thirteen hundred and twenty-six] [tkirleen kun­
dred and ninery-tkree] [550.] shall be by petition, verified by affidavit, set­
ting forth the judgment or order, the facts or errors constituting a cause
to vacate or modify it, and if the party is a defendant, the facts constitu­
ting a defense to the action ; and such proceedings must be commenced
within one year after the judgment or order was made, unless the party
entitled thereto be a minor or person of unsound mind, and then within
one year from the removal of such disability.-Laws of 1891, p. 45, § 2. 
§ 553. (1396.] Proceeding same as in original action-except. In
such proceedings the party shall be brought into court in the same way,
on the same notice as to time, mode of service and mode of return, and 
the pleadings shall be governed by the same principles, and issues be
made up by the same form, and all the proceedings conducted in the same
way, as near as can be, as in original action by ordinary proceedings ex­
cept that the facts stated in the petition shall be deemed denied without
answer, and defendant shall introduce no new cause, and the cause of the 
petition shall alone be tried.-Laws of 1891, p. 45, § 3.
§ 554. [1397.] Proof required-Securities preserved. The judg­ 
ment shall not be vacated on motion or petition until it is adjudged that
there is a valid defense to the action in which the judgment is rendered;
or if the plaintiff seeks its vacation, that there is a valid cause of action;
and when judgment is modified, all liens and securities obtained under it
shall be preserved to the modified judgment. -Code of 1881, § 441. 
§ 5,i;5. (1398.] Grounds for vacating may be tried before defenses. 
The court may first try and decide upon the grounds to vacate or modify
a judgment or order, before trying or deciding upon the validity of the
defense or cause of action.-Code of 1881. § 442. 
§ 556. (1399.] Injunction may be granted pending proceedings. 
The party seeking to vacate or modify a judgment or order may obtain an
injunction suspending proceedings on the whole or part thereof, which
injunction may be granted by the court or the judge, upon its being ren­
dered probable, by affidavit or petition sworn to, or by exhibition of the
record, that the party is entitled to have such judgment or order vacated 
or modified.-Code of 1881, § 443. 
§ 557. [1400.] Court may review judgments in other manner­
Criminal action. The provisions of this chapter shall not be so con­
strued as to affect the power of the court to vacate or modify judgments 
or orders as elsewhere in this code provided; nor shall any judgment of
acquittal in a criminal action be vacated under the provisions of this chap­ 
ter .-Laws of 1891, p. 45, § 4. Constitution, Art. 1, § 9. 
§ 558. [1401.] Effect of denying application-Costs, ete., ten per
cent. damages. In all cases in which an application under this chapter 
to vacate or modify a judgment or order for the recovery of money is
denied, if proceedings on the judgment or order shall have been sus­
pended, judgment shall be rendered against the plaintiff for the amount
of the former judgment or order, interest and costs, together with dam­
ages at the discretion of the court, not exceeding ten per cent. on the 
amount of the judgment or order. -Laws of 1891, p. 45, § 5. 
I 
§ 559. [ 464.] Execution at any time within five years. That the
party in whose favor judgment bas been given or may hereafter be given 
or entered in any court of record in this territory, may have an execution
issued at any time for the collection or enforcement of the same; pro­ 
viding, that if a period of five years shall have elapsed without an execu­
tion being issued on such judgment, then execution shall not issue
thereafter until such judgment shall be revived in the manner provided 
for by law.-Laws of 1887-8, p. 94, §1. 
§ 56o. [465.] Pour kinds of executions. There shall be four kinds
of execution : One against the property of the judgment debtor, another
against bis person; the third for the delivery of the possession of real or 
personal property, or such delivery with damages for withholding the
same, and the fourth, commanding the enforcement of or obedience to
any special order of the court. And in all cases there sh all be an order 
to collect the costs.-Code of 1881, § 327. 
§ 561. [466.] How enforced-When judgment served. When a
judgment requires the payment of money, or the delivery of real or per­ 
sonal property, the same may be enforced in those respects by execution,
as provided in this chapter. When it requires the performance of any
other act, a certified copy of the judgment may be served on the party
against whom it is given, or the person or officer who is required thereby,
or by law, to obey the same, and a writ shall be issued commanding him
to obey or enforce the same. If he refuses, he may be punished by the 
court as for a contempt.-Code of 1881, § 326. 
§ 562. [467.] DUferent forms of writ-Contents. The writ of execu­
tion shall be issued in the name of the United States, sealed with the seal 
of the court, and subscribed by the clerk, and shall be directed to the 
sheriff of the county of which the property is situated, or coroner, when
the sheriff is a party, or interested, and shall intelligibly refer to the judg­
ment, stating the court, the district or county where judgment was ren­
dered, the names of the parties, the amount of the judgment if it be for
money, and the amount actually due thereon, and shall require substan­
tially 8.$ follows: 
1. If it be against the property of the judgment debtor it shall require
the sheriff to satisfy the judgment, with interest, out of the personal
property of the debtor, and if sufficient personal property cannot be found,
out of his real property, upon which the judgment is a lien. 
2. If it be against real or personal property in the hands of personal
representatives, heirs, devisees, legatees, tenants of real property or
trustees, it shall require the sheriff to satisfy the judgment, with interest,
out of such property. 
3. If it be against the person of the judgment debtor, it shall require
the sheriff to arrest such debtor and commit him to the jail of the county,
until he shall pay the judgment, with interest, or be discharged according
to law. 
4. If it be for the delivery of the possession of real or personal prop­
erty, it shall require the sheriff to deliver the possession of the same, par­
ticularly describing it, to the party entitled thereto, and may, at the same
time, require the sheriff to satisfy any charges, damages, or rents and
profits recovered by the same judgment, out of the personal property of
the party against whom it was rendered and the value of the property for
which the judgment was recovered, shall be specified therein. If a de­
livery thereof cannot be had, and if sufficient personal property cannot be 
. found, then out of his real property. When it is to enforce obedience to
any special order, it shall particularly command what is required to be
done, or to be omitted. When the nature of the case shall require it, the
execution may embrace one or more of the requirements above mentioned
and in all cases the execution shall require the collection of all interest, 
costs, and increased costs thereon.-Code of 188r, § 328. 
§ 563. [468.] May issue to any county. The party in whose favor
judgment has been rendered, entered, or given in any court of record in 
this territory for the recovery of money, or against the property of a
judgment debtor, may have execution issued thereon for the collection or
enforcement of such judgment to the sheriff of any county in this terri­
tory; provided, that when a judgment requires the delivery of real or
personal property, execution shall be issued to the sheriff of the county
where the property, or some part thereof, is situated.-Laws of 1887-8, 
p. 95, § 2. 
§ 564. [469.] Bheritf 's and clerk's duties on execution. The
sheriff shall indorse upon the writ or execution, the time when he re­ 
ceived the same, and such execution shall be returnable within sixty
days after its date, to the clerk who issued the same. And no sheriff
shall retain any moneys collected on execution, more than twenty days,
before paying the same to the clerk of the court who issues the writ, un­
der penalty of twenty per cent. on the amount collected, to be paid by
the sheriff, the one-half to the party to whom the judgment is payable,
and the other half to the county commissioner of the county wherein the
action was brought, for the use of the school fund of said county. And
the clerk shall immediately after the receipt of any moneys collected on 
any judgment, notify the party to whom the same is payable, and pay
over the amount to said party on demand. On failure to so notify and
pay over, without reasonable cause shown for delay, the clerk shall for­
feit and pay the same penalty to the same parties, as is above prescribed 
for the sheriff.-Code of 1881, § 330. 
State ex rel v. Gordon, 3 W., 702; 29 P., 204. 
§ 565. [470.] When execution against the person may issue. If
the action be one in which the defendant may be arrested, as provided by
law, an execution against- the person of the judgment debtor may be 
issued to any county in the territory : provided, that the sheriff shall not
arrest the defendant if he shall deliver to him the property subject to levy, 
sufficient to satisfy said judgment.-Code of 1881, § 331. 
§ 566. [471.] Imprisonment on execution. A person arrested 011 ex­
ecution, shall be imprisoned within the jail, or the liberties thereof, and
kept at his own expense until satisfaction of the execution, or his legal 
discharge; but the plaintiff shall be liable to the sheriff, in the first
instance, for such expense as in other cases of arrest in the same manner,
and to the same extent as therein prescribed.-Code of 1881, § 332. 
§ 567. [472.] Execution in name of assignee, etc. In all cases in
which judgment has been recovered in any of the courts of this territory, 
which shall have been assigned to any person, execution may issue in the
name of the assignee, upon the assignment being recorded in the execu­
tion docket, by the clerk of the court in which the judgment is recovered;
and in all cases in which a judgment has been recovered in any such
court, and the person in whose name execution might have issued, dies, ex­
ecution may issue, in the name of the executor, administrator or legal rep­
resentative of such deceased person, upon the letters testamentary or of
administration, or other sufficient proof, being filed in said cause and
minuted upon said execution docket, by the clerk of the court in which
said judgment is entered, and upon an order of said court, or the judge
thereof, which may be made on an ex parte application, and the provi­
sions of this section shall extend to all judgments heretofore recovered,
as well as to those hereafter to be recovered, and to cases of persons now
deceased, as well as to those who may hereafter die.-Laws of 1886, p. 
75, § 1. 
i 568. In what cases allowed and bow long. 
i s69. Bond required. 
i 570. Judgment against sureties on bond. 
§ 568. [473.] In what cases allowed and how-long. Stay of execu­
tion shall be allowed on judgments rendered in the supreme court and
district court as follows : 
In the supreme court : 
CHAPTER XLIX. 
STAY OF EXECUTION. 
i 571. Qualifications of sureties. 
i 572. Stay of execution for part of time. 
i 5i3· Bonds to be lodged with clerk. 
1. On all sums under five hundred dollars, thirty days. 
2. On all sums over five and under fifteen hundred dollars, sixty
days. . 
3. On all sums over fifteen hundred dollars, ninety days.
On judgments rendered in the district court: 
1. On all sums under three hundred dollars, two months. 
2. On all sums over three hundred and under one thousand dollars,
five months. 
3. On all sums over one thousand dollars, six months.-Code of 1881, 
§. 335. 
§ 569. [474.) Bond required. Before any execution shall be stayed
under the provisions of this chapter, the defendant shall give bond to the
opposite party, in double the amount of the judgment and costs, with
surety, to the satisfaction of the clerk, conditioned to pay said judgment,
interest, costs, and increased costs at the expiration of the period of said 
stay.-Code of 1881, § 336. 
Washington M. Co. v, Kinnear, I W. T., 99. 
§ 570. (475.] Judgment against sureties on bond. If the judgment
is not satisfied, at any time after the expiration of the period for which
execution has been stayed, the plaintiff at any subsequent term of the 
court at which the execution issued, may, upon motion supported by an
affidavit that such judgment or any part thereof is unpaid, and stating 
. how much still remains due thereon, have judgment against the sureties
upon said bond, for the balance remaining due, and have an execution
therefor, upon which no stay shall be allowed.-Code of 1881, § 337. 
§ 571. [476.] Qualifications of sureties. The sureties upon a bond
for stay of execution shall possess the same qualifications, and justify in 
the same manner as bail upon arrest in civil actions.-Code of 1881, 
s 338. 
§ 572. [477.] Stay of execution for pa.rt of time. When execution
has not been stayed, and execution issues before the time has elapsed for
which it might have been stayed, as is herein provided, the defendant 
may have stay for the balance of the time, upon giving the proper bond
and surety, which bond and surety shall be approved by and justified be­ 
fore the sheriff. - Code of I 881, § 339.
§ 573. [478.] Bonds to be lodged with clerk. Bonds required by 
this act shall, when taken, be lodged with the clerk of the court where
the judgment was rendered, and placed on file in his office.-Code of 1881 , 
§'340. 
f 574. All property liable to execution except
that exempted. 
i 575. Wife's property exempt from husband's
debts. 
l 576. Homestead exemption. 
i 577. When homestead not exempt. 
e 578. Homestead may be mortgaged-Wife
must join. 
CHAPTER L. 
f 579. Proceedings if homestead exceed one
thousand dollars. 
EXBMPTIONS. 
i 58o. Proceeda from sale of homestead ex-
empt. 
i 581. List of exempt property. 
f 582. Pensions exempt. 
f 583- Same. 
f 584- Exemption waived by agreement in
writing. 
f 585, Proceedinp when exemption ia claimed. 
§ 574. [479.) All property liable to execution except that ex­
empted. All property, real and personal, of the judgment debtor, not 
exempt by~aw, shall be liable to execution.-Code of 1881, § 333. 
§ 575. [480.] Wife's property exempt from hu1$band's debts. All 
real and personal estate belonging to any married woman at the time of
her marriage, and all which she may have acquired subsequently to such
marriage, or to which she shall hereafter become entitled in her own
right, and all her personal earnings, and all the issues, rents and profits
of such real estate, shall be exempt from attachment and execution up­
on any liability or judgment against the husband, so long as she or any
minor heir of her body shall be living ; provided, that her separate prop­
erty shall be liable for debts owing by her at the time of her marriage.­ 
Code of 1881, § 341. 
§ 576. [481.] Homestead exemption. There shall be also exempt
from execution and attachment to every householder, being the bead of a
family, a homestead not exceeding in value the sum of one thousand dol­
lars, while occupied as such by the owner thereof, or bis or her family.
Said homestead may consist of a house and lot or lots in any city, or of
a farm consisting of any number of acres, so that the value of the same
shall not exceed the aforesaid sum of one thousand dollars. Such home­ 
stead may be selected at any time before sale. -Code of 1881, § 342. 
McMillan v. Mau, 23 P., 441; 1 W., 26. 
§ 577. [482.] When homestead not exempt. When any person dies
seized of a homestead, leaving a widow or husband or minor children, 
the survivors shall be entitled to the homestead, but in case there be
neither surviving husband, widow or children, the said homestead shall 
be liable for the debts of the deceased.-Code of 1881, §343. 
McMillan v. Mau, 23 P., 441, 1 W., 26. 
§ 578. [483.] Homestead may be mortgaged-Wife must join. 
Nothing herein contained shall be construed to prevent the owner of a
homestead from voluntarily mortgaging the same. "But no such mort­
gage shall be valid against the wife of the mortgagor unless she shall
sign and acknowledge the same."-Laws of 1887-8, p. 162, § 1. 
~ 579. [484.] Proceedings if homestead exceeds one thousand
dollars. When any creditor shall be of opinion that any homestead 
claimed under the provisions of this act is of greater value than one
thousand dollars, on filing an affidavit to that effect with the clerk of the
district court, the judgment creditor may proceed against said home­
stead as in other cases of real estate, and if said homestead shall sell for
over one thousand dollars and costs, the surplus shall be applied to the
payment of the judgment of said creditor, and in all such cases the sum
of one thousand dollars, free of charge or expense, shall be paid to the
owner of the homestead; and in case the said homestead shall not sell
for more than one thousand dollars and costs, the person instituting the
proceeding shall pay all cost of such proceeding, and the said proceeding
cease and not affect or impair the rights of the owner of the home­ 
stead.-Code of 1881, § 345. 
§ 580. [485.] Proceeds from sale of homestead exempt. In case of
the sale of said homestead, any subsequent homestead acquired by the 
proceeds thereof shall also be exempt from attachment and execution,
nor shall any judgment or other claim against the owner of such home­
stead be a lien against the same in the hands of a bona fide purchaser for
a valuable consideration.-Code of 1881, § 346. 
§ 58 1. [ 486.] List of exempt property. The following property
shall be exempt from execution and attachment except as hereinafter
specially provided : 
1. All wearing apparel of every person and family. 
2. All private libraries not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500) in
value, and all family pictures and keepsakes. 
3. To each householder, one bed and bedding, and one addition[ al] bed
and bedding for each additional member of the family, and other house­
hold goods and utensils and furniture not exceeding five hundred dollars,
($500) coin, in value. The other household goods and utensils and furni­
ture specified above shall, on demand of the officer having the execution or
attachment in hand, be selected by the husband, if present, if not present
they shall be selected by his wife, and in case neither husband or wife,
nor other person entitled to the exemption by having the description of a
householder, shall be present to make the selection, then the sheriff shall
make a selection of the household goods, utensils and furniture equal in
value to said five hundred dollars ($500), and shall return the same as ex­
empt by inventory, and such selection by the sheriff or other person des­
cribed above shall be prima fade evidence,-1. That such household
goods, utensils and furniture are exempt from execution and attachment. 
2. That the value of the property so selected is not over five hundred dol­
lars ($500). 
4. To each householder, two cows, with their calves, five swine, two
stands of bees, thirty-six domestic fowls, and provisions and fuel for the
comfortable maintenance of such householder and family for six months,
also feed for such animals for six months ; provided, that in case such
householder shall not possess or shall not desire to retain the animals
named above, be may select from his property and retain other property
not to exceed two hundred and fifty dollars ($2so), coin, in value. The
selection in the proviso mentioned shall be made in the manner, and by
the person and at the time mentioned in subdivision three, and said selec­
tion shall have the same effect as selections made under subdivision
three of this section. 
5. To a farmer, one span of horses or mules, with harness, or two yoke
of oxen, with yokes and chains, and one wagon; also farming utensils
actually used about the farm, not exceeding in value five hundred dollars
($500) in coin; also one hundred and fifty bushels of wheat; one hundred
and fifty bushels of oats or barley; fifty bushels of potatoes; ten bushels
of corn ; ten bushels of peas, and ten bushels of onions for seeding pur­
poses. 
6. To a mechanic, the tools and instruments used to carry on his trade
for the support of himself and family, also material used in bis trade, not
exceeding the value of five hundred dollars in coin. 
7 .. To a physician, his library, not to exceed the value of five hundred
dollars in coin ; also one horse, with harness and buggy ; the instruments
used in his practice, and medicines not exceeding in value two hundred
dollars in coin. 
8. To attorneys, clergymen, and other professional men, their libraries,
not exceeding one thousand dollars, in coin, value; also office furniture,
fuel, and stationery, not exceeding in value two hundred dollars in coin. 
9. All fire-arms kept for the use of any person or family. 
10. To any person, a canoe, skiff, or small boat, with its oars, sails, and
rigging, not exceeding in value two hundred and fifty dollars. 
11. To a person engaged in lightering for his support or that of his
family, one or more lighters, barges, or scows, and a small boat, with
oars, sails, and rigging, not exceeding in the aggregate two hundred and
fifty dollars, in coin, value. . 
12. To a teamster or drayman engaged in that business for the support
of himself or his family, his team, consisting of one span of horses, or
mules, or two yoke of oxen, or a horse and mule, with harness, yokes,
one wagon, truck, cart, or dray. 
13. To a person engaged in the business of logging for his support or
that of his family, three yoke of work-cattle and their yokes, and axes,
chains, implements for the business, and camp equipments, not exceed­
ing three hundred dollars, coin, in value. 
14. A sufficient quantity of hay, grain, or feed to keep the animals
mentioned in the several subdivisions of this chapter for six weeks. But
no property shall be exempt from an execution issued upon a judgment
for the price thereof, or any part of the price thereof, or for any tax levied
thereon. Each person shall be entitled to select the property to which
he is entitled under the several subdivisions of this act.-Laws of 1885-6, 
p. 96, § I. 
§ 582. [487.] Pension exempt. Any money received by any citizen
of the state of Washington as a pension from the government of the 
United States, whether the same be in the actual possession of such per­
son or be deposited or loaned by him, shall be exempt from execution,
attachment, or seizure by or under any legal process whatever.-Laws of 
1889-90, p. 88, § I. 
§ 583. [488.] Same. When a debtor dies or absconds, and leaves
his family any money exempted by this act, the same shall be exempt to
his family, as provided in section I of this act.-Laws of 1889-90, 
p. 89, § 2. 
§ 584. [489.] Exemption waived by agreement in writing. This chapter shall not be so construed as to prevent any single man, or mar­
ried man, his wife joining him, from waiving, by agreement in writing, 
the benefit of this act : provided, that any agreement of waiver made by a
husband and wife shall be witnessed and acknowledged as required in
case of a deed conveying real estate: and provided also, that nothing in
this chapter shall be construed to exempt from attachment or execution
the property, real or personal, of non-residents, or a person who bas left,
or is about to leave, the territory with the intent to defraud his creditors.
-Code of 1881, § 348. . 
§ 585. [490.] Proceedings when exemption is claimed. When a
debtor claims personal property as exempt, he shall deliver to the officer
making the levy an itemized list of all the personal property owned or
claimed by him, including money, bonds, bills, notes, claims and 
demands, with the residence of the person indebted upon the said bonds,
bills, notes, claims and demands, and shall verify such list by affidavit.
He shall also deliver to such officer a list, by separate items, of the prop­
erty he claims as exempt. If the husband be absent or incapable of
acting, the claim may be made, the list delivered and verified, by the
wife. If the creditor, his agent or attorney, demand an appraisement
thereof, two disinterested householders of the neighborhood shall be
chosen, one by the debtor and the other by the creditor, his agent or
attorney, and these two, if they cannot agree, shall select a third; [but if 
either party fail to choose an appraiser, or the two fail to select a third,
or] if one or more of the appraisers fail to act, the officer shall appoint
one. The appraisers shall forthwith proceed to make a list, by separate
items, of the personal property selected by the debtor as exempt, which
they shall decide as exempt, stating the value of each article, and annex­
ing to the list their affidavit to the following effect: "We solemnly swear
that to the best of our judgment the above is a fair cash valuation of
the property therein described," which affidavit shall be signed by two
appraisers at least, and be certified by the officer administering the oaths.
The list shall be delivered to the officer holding the execution or other
process, and be by him annexed to and made part of his return, and the
property therein specified shall be exempt from levy and sale, and the
other personal estate of the debtor shall remain subject thereto. In case
no appraisement be required, the officer shall return with the process the
list of the property claimed as exempt by the debtor. The appraisers
shall each be entitled to one dollar, to be paid by the creditor, if all the
property claimed by the debtor shall be exempt; otherwise to be paid by
the debtor.-Code of 1881, § 349. 
Niklason v. Parker, 3 W. T., 527, 12 P., 31. 
CHAPTER LI. 
CLAIM TO PROPERTY LEVIED UPON OR A TT ACHED. 
I ,S86. Third party may have immediate poa- I sB9. Claimant deemed plaintiff, sheriff and
session. plaintiff defendants. 
I 587. Sureties on bond must justify if re- I 590. Judgment in such cases, for what ren-
quired. dered, 
I sSS. Return of affidavit and trial thereon. 
§ 586. (491.] Third party may have immediate poSBession. When
any other person than the judgment debtor shall claim property levied 
upon or attached, he may have the right to demand and receive the same
from the sheriff or other officer making the attachment or levy, upon his
making an affidavit that the property is his, or that he has a right to the
immediate possession thereof, statingon oath the value thereof, and giv­
ing to the sheriff or officer a bond, with sureties in double the value of
such property, conditioned that he will appear in the superior court of
the county in which the property was seized within ten days after the
bond is accepted by the sheriff or other officer, and make good his title to
the same, or that he will return the property or pay its value to the said
sheriff or other officer.-Laws of 1891, p. 79, § 1. 
Dawson v. Baum, 3 W. T., 464; 19 P., 46. Standley v. Marsh, 20 P., 592; 1 W.,
512. Siebbaum v. Delanty, 30 P., 66::z; 4 W., 597. Chapin v. Bokee, 29 P.,
936; 4 W., 1. Metcalf v. Bush, 30 P., 325; 4 W., 386. Scott v. McGraw, 3
W., 675; 29 P., 26o. Myers v. Landrum, 4 W., 762; 31 P. 33. 
§ 587. (492.] Sureties on bond must justify if required. If the 
sheriff or other officer require it, the sureties shall justify as in other 
cases, and in case they do not so justify when required, the sheriff or of­
ficer shall retain the property; if the sheriff or officer do not require the
bail to justify, he shall stand good for their sufficiency. He shall date
and indorse his acceptance upon the bond.-Code of 1881, § 351. 
§ 588. (493.] Return of affidavit and trial thereon. The officer
shall return the affidavit, bond and justification, if any, to the office of 
the clerk of the superior court, and [this] [the] case shall stand for trial in
said court.-Laws of 1891, p. So, § 2. Code of 1881, § 352. 
Chapin v. Bokee, 4 W., 1; 29 P., 936. 
§ 589. (494.J Claimant deemed plaintiff-Sheriff and plaintiff de­
fendants. The person claiming the property shall be plaintiff, and the 
sheriff and plaintiff in the execution, defendants. Code of 1881, § 353. 
Chapin v. Bokee, 29 P., 936; 4 W., 1. Scott v. McGraw, 3 W., 675; 29 P .. 26o. 
§ 590. (495.J Judgment in such cases, for what rendered. If the
claimant makes good his title to the property, the bond shall be canceled; 
if to a portion thereof, a like proportion of the bond shall be canceled;
but if he shall not maintain his title, judgment shall be rendered against
him and his sureties for the value of the property, or for such less amount
as shall not exceed the amount due on the original execution or attach­
ment. When the judgment is in favor of the sheriff for the entire prop­
erty, the claimant shall pay the costs; when the claimant recovers all the
property, judgment shall be given in favor of the claimant for costs; when
the claimant recovers a portion of the property only, the costs shall be ap­
portioned. When the plaintiff prevails, the costs may be taxed against
the defendant who was plaintiff in the execution or attachment, or the
court may, if it shall be of opinion that the sheriff attached or levied upon
said property without the exercise of due caution, adjudge him to pay the 
costs, or any portion thereof. -Code of 1881, § 354. 
Chapin v. Bokee, 29 P., 936; 4 W., 1. 
i 591.
How execution against property is exe- 
I 005.
Joint and several debtors entitled to
cuted,
contribution-Surety must give thirty 
i 592.
Property and debts due from garnishee. days' notice. 
i 593. 
i 594. 
I 595. 
When same remains in poueuion of
i 6o6.
Redemption of real property-Certifi·
garnishee.
ete of sale. 
Judgment debtor may retain personal
i 6o7.
Debtor and subsequent creditors may
property by giving bond.
redeem. 
!liotice of sales under eaecuttea.
i 6o8.
One year's redemption from mortgage 
I 5¢.
Manner of conducting sales. or execntion sales. 
f 597. 
i 598. 
i 599. 
CHAPTER r.n. 
SALES UNDER EXECUTION. 
Sale may be atljourned from week to
f 6og.
Succesaive redemptions within
sixty
weeJ:-Notices. days. 
Delivery and bill of sale to be made by
i 610.
Purchaser entitled to conveyance after
sheriff.
aix months. 
Real property-How sold.
i 611.
Manner of redeeming. 
f 6oo.
Measurement of land when sold by the
i 612.
Prior lienors entitled to first redemp-
acre. tion. 
I 001.
Not to be measured if entire tract is
i 613.
Waste may be restrained after sale.
sold.
i 614.
Purchaser entitled to posseseiou after 
i 6o2.
Proceeds of sale and writ to be returned sale.
to clerk.
i 615.
When purchasers entitled to conveyance 
i 6o3.
Manner of confirming sales of real es-
-Successor of sheriff may execute.
tate.
i 616.
Sheriff's deed to be entered in clerk's 
i 004.
If judgment reversed after .. Ie, pur- 
§ 591. (496.] How execution against property is executed. When
the writ of execution is against the property of the judgment debtor, it 
shall be executed by the sheriff as follows: 
. 
book of levies .
chaser may recover of plaintiff'. 
1. If property bas been attached, he shall indorse on the execution and 
pay to the clerk forthwith the amount of the proceeds of sales of perishable
property or debts due the defendant received by him sufficient to satisfy
the judgment. · 
2. Ifthe judgment is not then satisfied, and property has been attached
and remains in his custody, he shall sell the same, or sufficient thereof to
satisfy the judgment. · . 
3. If then any portion of the judgment remains unsatisfied, or if no
property has been attached, or the same has been discharged, he shall levy
on the property of the judgment debtor sufficient to satisfy the judgment. 
4. Property shall be levied on in like manner and with like effect as
similar property is attached. 
5. Until a levy, personal property shall not be affected by the execution.
When property has been sold or debts received by the sheriff on execution,
he shall pay the proceeds thereof, or sufficient to satisfy the judgment, as 
commanded in the writ.
6. When property has been attached, and it is probable that such prop­ 
erty will not be sufficient to satisfy the judgment, the execution may be
levied on other property of the judgment debtor without delay. If after
satisfying the judgment any property, or the proceeds thereof, remain in
the custody of the sheriff, he shall deliver the same to the judgment debtor. 
-Code of 1881, § 355. 
Chase v. Cannon, 47 F., 674 (Wash.). 
§ 592. [497.] Property and debts due from garnishee. In the case
of property in the possession of, or.owing from any garnishee, the sheriff 
shall proceed as follows : . 
1. If it appear, from the certificate of the garnishee, that he is owing a
debt to the judgment debtor which is then due, if such debt is not paid by
such garnishee to the sheriff, on demand, he shall levy on the property of
the garnishee of the amount thereof, in all respects as if the execution was
against the property of the garnishee. But if such debt be not then due,
the sheriff shall sell the same, according to the certificate, as other property. 
2. If, in like manner, it appear that the judgment debtor has rights or
shares in the stock of th& garnishee, as provided in subdivision 3 of section 179 [32 1], the sheriff shall sell the same, according to the certifi- 
cate, as other property. ·
3. If, in like manner, it appear that the garnishee has other personal 
property of the judgment debtor in his possession, and the same has not
been bailed to such garnishee for a period then unexpired, unless the same 
be delivered to the sheriff, on demand, he shall levy upon the same where-·
ever he may find it. But if such property is in possession of such gar­
nishee upon a bailment then unexpired, the sheriff shall sell the same, or
the interest pf the judgment debtor therein, according to the certificate, as 
other property. -Code of I 88 I, § 356.
§ 593. [498.] When same remains in possession of garnishee. 
When a sheriff with an execution levies upon any of the personal property
mentioned in subdivision three of section one hundred and seventy-nine
[321], and if the same is not delivered, paid, or transferred to him at the
time. he shall proceed thereafter in reference to such property as provided
in the preceding section. Such property may be delivered, paid, or
transferred to the sheriff at the time of the levy, or sufficient thereof to 
satisfy the execution; and the sheriff's receipt to the person, association
or corporation, as the case may be, shall be a sufficient discharge therefor ..
Code of 1881,· § 357. 
§ 594. [ 499.] Judgment debtor may retain personal property by
giving bond. When the sheriff shall levy upon personal property by 
.virtue of an execution, he may permit the judgment debtor to retain the
same, or any part thereof, in his possession until the day of sale, upon the
defendant executing a written bond to the sheriff, with sufficient surety,
in double the value of such property, to the effect that it shall be delivered
to the sheriff at the time and place of sale, and for non-delivery thereof an
action may be maintained upon such bond by the sheriff or the plaintiff in
the .. execution; but the sheriff shall not thereby be discharged from his
liability to the plaintiff for such property.-Code of 1881, § 358. 
§ 595. [500.] Notice of sale under execution. Before the sale of
property on execution, notice thereof shall be given as follows: 
1. In case of personal property, by posting written or printed notice of
the time and place of sale in three public places of the county where the
sale. is to take place, not less than ten days successively. 
2. In case of real property, by posting a similar notice, particularly de­
scribing the-property. for four weeks successively, in three public places of
the county where the property is to be sold, and publishing a copy thereof,
once a week for the same period, in a newspaper of the county, if there
be one, or if there be none, then in a newspaper published nearest to the 
place of sale.-Code of 188_1, § 359.
~ 596. [so 1.] Manner of conducting sales. All the sales of property 
upon. execution shall be made by auction between nine o'clock in the
morning and four o'clock in the afternoon. After sufficient property has
been sold to satisfy the execution, no more shall be sold. Neither. the
officer holding the execution nor his deputy shall become a purchaser or
be interested in any purchase at such sale. When the sale is of personal
property capable of manual delivery, and not in the possession of a third
person, association or corporation, it shall be within view of those who at­
tend the sale, and be sold in such parcels as are likely to bring the highest
price ; and when the sale is of real property, and consisting of several
known lots or parcels, they shall be sold separately or otherwise, as is
likely to bring the highest price, or when a portion of such real property
is claimed by a third person, and he requires it to be sold separately, such
portion shall he sold separately. Sales of real property shall. be made at
the court house door.-Code of 1881, § 360. 
· § 597. [502.] Sales may be adjourned from week to week-No­
tices. If, at the time appointed for the sale, the sheriff should be pre­ 
vented from attending at the place appointed, or being present should
deem it for the advantage of all concerned to postpone the sale for want
of purchasers, or other sufficient cause, he may postpone the sale not ex­
ceeding one week next after the day appointed, and so from time to time,
for the like cause, giving notice of every adjournment by public procla­
mation made at the same time, and by posting written notices of such
adjournment under the notices of sale originally posted by him. The
sheriff for like causes may also adjourn the sale from time to time, not
exceeding thirty days beyond the day at which the writ is made return· 
able, with the consent of the plaintiff indorsed upon the writ.-Code of 
1881, § 361. 
§ 598. [503.] Delivery and bilJ of sale to be made by sheriff. 
When the purchaser of any personal property, capable of manual deliv­
ery, and not in the possession of a third person, association, or corpora­
tion, shall pay the purchase money, the sheriff shall deliver to him the
property, and if desired shall give him a bill of sale containing an
acknowledgment of the payment. In all other sales of personal prop­
erty the sheriff shall give the purchaser a bill of sale with ·the like ac­ 
knowledgrnent.-Code of 1881, § 362.
§ 599. [504.] Real property, how sold. The form and manner of 
sale of real estate by execution shall be as follows : The sheriff shall
proclaim aloud at the place of sale, in the hearing of all the by-standers :·
"I am about to sell the following tracts of real estate (here reading the
deseription.) upon the following execution :" (here reading the execution).
He shall also state the amount which he is required to make upon the ex­
ecution, which shall include damages, interests and costs up to the day
of sale, and increased costs. He shall then offer the land for sale, the lots
and parcels separately or together, as he shall deem most advantageous.
All land, except town lots, shall be sold by the acre. Code of 18811 § 363. 
§ 6oo. [505.] :Measurement ofland when sold by the acre. When
the land is sold by the acre, and any less number of acres than the whole 
tract or parcel is sold, it shall be measured off to the purchaser in a square
form, from the northeast comer of the tract or parcel, unless some person
having an interest in the land shall, at the sale, or prior thereto and before
the bidding is made, request that the land sold shall be taken from some
other part, or in some other form; in such case, if such request is reason­
able, the officer making the sale shall sell accordingly.-Code of 1881, 
§ 364.
§ 601. [5o6.] Not to be measured if entire tract is sold. When an 
entire tract or parcel of land is sold by the acre, it shall not be measured,
but shall be deemed and taken to contain the number of acres named in
the description, and be paid for accordingly ; and when the number of
acres is not contained in the description, the officer shall declare, according
to his judgment, how many acres are contained therein, which shall be
deemed and taken to be the true number of acres.-Code of 1881, § 365. 
§ 602. [5<.,7.] Proceeds of sale and writ to be returned to clerk. 
The officer shall strike off the land to the highest bidder who shall forth­
with pay the money bid to the officer, who shall return ·the money with
his execution and his doings thereon to the clerk of the court from which
the execution issued, according to the order thereof: Presided, /z()Wever, 
That when final judgment shall have been entered in the supreme court,
and the execution upon which sale has been made issued from said court,
the proceedings on execution and return shall be docketed for confirmation
in the district court in which the action was originally commenced, and
like proceedings shall be had as though said execution had issued from the
said district court.-Code of 1881, § 366. 
§6o3. [508.] Manner of confirming sales of real estate. Upon the
return of any sale of real estate as aforesaid, the clerk shall enter the 
cause on which the execution issued, by its title, in the docket of the
term next after such return, and mark opposite the same "sale of land
for confirmation,'' and the following proceedings shall be had : 
1. The plaintiff shall be entitled, on motion therefor, to have an order
confirming the sale at the term next following the return of the execu­
tion, or if it bereturned in term time then at such term, unless the judg­
ment debtor, or in case of his death his representatives, shall file with the
clerk, ten days before such term, or if the writ he returned in term time
then five days after the return thereof, his objections thereto. 
2. If such objections be filed the court shall, notwithstanding, allow
the order confirming the sale, unless on the hearing of the motion it shall
satistactorily appear that there were substantial irregularities in the pro­
ceedings concerning the sale, to the probable loss or injury of the party
objecting. In the latter case the court shall disallow the motion and
direct that the property be resold in whole or in part, as the case may
be, as upon the execution received of that date. 
3. Upon the return of the execution, the sheriff shall pay the proceeds
of the sale to the clerk, who shall then apply the same, or so much
thereof as may be necessary, in satisfaction of the judgment. If an order
of resale be afterwards made and the property sell for a greater amount
to any person other than the former purchaser, the clerk shall first repay
to such purchaser the amount of his bid out of the proceeds of the latter 
sale.
4. Upon a resale, the bid of the purchaser at the former sale shall be 
deemed to be renewed and continue in force, and no bid shall be taken,
except for a greater amount. If the motion to confirm be not heard .and
decided at the term at which it is made it may be continued and heard
and determined before the judge, or at any term thereafter. An order
confirming a sale shall be a conclusive determination of the regularity of
the proceedings concerning such sale as to all persons in any other action,
suit or proceeding whatever. 
5. If after the satisfaction of the judgment, there be any proceeds of
the sale remaining, the clerk shall pay such proceeds to the judgment
debtor or his representative, as the case may be, at any time before the
order is made upon the motion to confirm the sale, provided such party
file with the clerk a waiver of all objections made or to be made to the
proceedings concerning the sale ; but if the sale be confirmed, such pro­
ceeds shall be paid to such party of course, otherwise they shall remain
in the custody of the clerk until the sale of the property had been dis- 
posed of.-Code of 1881, § 367. • 
Parker vs. Dacres, 24 P., 192, 1 W., 190. 
§ 604. [509.] If judgment reversed after sale purchaser may re­
cover of plaintiff. If the purchaser of real property sold on execution,
or his successor in interest, be evicted therefrom in consequence of the 
reversal of the judgment, he may recover the price paid with interest,
and the -costs and disbursements of the suit by which he was evicted,
from the plaintiff in the writ of execution.-Code of 18811 § 368. 
§ 6o5. [510.] Joint and several debtors entitled to contribution
-Surety must give thirty days' notice. When property liable to an
execution against several persons is sold thereon, and more than a due 
proportion of the judgment is levied upon the property of one of them, or 
one of them pays without a sale more than his proportion, he may compel
contributions from the others; and when a judgment is against several,
and is upon an obligation or contract of one of them as security for an­
other, and the surety pays the amount, or any part thereof, either by sale
of his property or before sale, he may compel repayment from the princi­
pal. In such case the person so paying or contributing shall be entitled
to the benefit of the judgment to enforce contribution or repayment if
within thirty days after his payment he file with the clerk of the court
where the judgment was rendered notice of his payment and claim to
contribution or repayment. Upon filing such notice, the clerk shall make
an entry thereof in the margin of the docket where the judgment is en­ 
tered.-Code of 1,881, § 369. 
§ 6o6. [.511.] Redemption of real property-Oertiftcate of sale. 
Upon a sale of real property, when the estate is less. than a leasehold of
two years unexpired term, the sale shall be absolute. In all other cases,
such property shall be subject to redemption, as hereinafter provided in
this chapter. At the time of sale the sheriff shall give to the purchaser
a certificate of the sale, containing : • 
1. A particular description of the property sold. 
2. The price bid for each distinct lot or parcel.
3. The whole price paid. 
4. When subject to redemption, it shall be so stated. The matters con­
tained in such certificate shall be substantially stated in the sheriff's re­ 
turn of his proceedings upon the writ.-Code of 1881, § 370.
Parker v. Dacres, 7 P., 8g3, 9 S. C., 433, 2 W., 439-445. • 
§ 6o7. [512.] Debtor and subsequent creditors may redeem. Prop­
erty sold subject to redemption, as provided in the last section, or any part thereof separately sold, may be redeemed by the following persons 
or their successors in interest : 
1. The judgment debtor, or his successor in interest, in the whole or
in any part of the property separately sold. 
2. A creditor having a lien by judgment, decree or mortgage on any
portion of the property, or any portion of any part thereof, separately
sold subsequent in time to that on which the property was sold. 
The persons mentioned in subdivision two of this section are termed
redemptioners.-Code of 1881, § 371. 
Hays v. Miller, 1 W. T., 143. Parker v. Dacres, 2 W., 439, 445; 7 P., 8g3.
~ 6o8. [513.] One year's redemption from mortgage or execution 
sales. .The judgment debtor, or his successor in interest, may redeem
any real estate sold under execution of judgment or foreclosure of mort­
gage at any time within one year from the date of the sale, by paying
the amount of the purchase-money, with interest at the rate of one per
centum per month thereon from the date of the sale, together with the
amount of any taxes which the purchaser may have paid.-Laws of 
1886, p. II6, § I. 
§ 609. [514.] Successive redemptions within sixty days. If the
property be so redeemed by a redemptioner, either the judgment debtor
or any other redemptioner may, within sixty days of the last redemption, 
again redeem it on paying the sum paid on the last redemption, with in­
terest at the rate of. two per centum per month thereon, from the date of
the last preceding redemption in addition, together with the amount of
any taxes which the last redemptioner may have paid thereon; and un- 
less his lien be prior to that of such redemptioner, the amount of such
lien, with interest. The property may be again, and as often as a debtor
or a redemtioner is disposed, redeemed from the last previous redemp­
tioner, within sixty days from the last redemption, on paying the sum
paid on the last previous redemption, with interest at the rate of two
per centum per month thereon from the date of such previous redemp­
tion, together with the amount of any taxes paid thereon by such
last redemptioner, and the amount of any liens held by such last re­
demptioner prior to his own, with interest. Notice of redemption shall 
be given to the sheriff.-Code of 1881, § 373. 
§ 610. [515.] Purchaser entitled to conveyance after six months .. 
If no redemption be made within six months from the confirmation of'
the sale, the purchaser shall be entitled to a conveyance from the sheriff,
or if so redeemed, whenever sixty days has elapsed, and no other redemp­
tion hss been made, the time for reslemption shall have expired, and the
redemptioner shall be entitled to a conveyance from the sheriff. If the
judgment debtor redeem at any time-before the time for redemption ex­
pires, the effects of the sale shall be determined, and he shall be restored 
to his estate.-Code of 1881, § 374. 
§ _611. [516.] :Manner of redeeming. The mode of redeeming shall
be as provided in this section: 
1. The person seeking to redeem shall give the purchaser or redemp­
tioner, as the case may be, two days' notice of his intention to apply to
the sheriff for that purpose. At the time and place specified in said
notice, such person may redeem by paying to the sheriff the sum re­
quired. The sheriff shall give the person redeeming a certificate as in
case of sale on execution, adding therein the sum paid on redemption,
from whom redeemed, and the date thereof. A party seeking to redeem
shall submit to the sheriff the evidence of his right thereto, as follows : 
2. Proof that the notice required by this section has been given to the
purchaser or redemptioner, or waived. 
3. If he be a lien creditor, a copy of the docket of the judgment or de­
cree under which he claims the right to redeem, certified by the clerk of 
the court where such judgment or decree is docketed, or if be seeks to 
redeem upon mortgage, the certificate of the record thereof.
4. A copy of any assignment necessary to establish his claim, verified 
by the affidavit of himself or agent, showing the amount then actually
due on the judgment, decree, or mortgage. 
5. If the redemptioner or purchaser have a lien prior to that of the lien
creditor seeking to redeem, such redemptioner or purchaser shall submit
to the sheriff the like evidence thereof, and of the amount due thereon,
or the same may be disregarded.-Code of 18811 § 375. 
Scott v. Paterson, 20 P., 593; I W., 487. 
§ 612. [517.] Prior lienors entitled to flrst redemption. When two
or more persons apply to the sheriff to redeem at the same time, he shall 
allow the person having the prior lien to redeem first, and so on. The
sheriff shall immediately pay the money over to the person from whom
the property is redeemed, if he attend at the redemption, or if not, at any
time thereafter when demanded. Where a sheriff shall wrongfully re­
fuse to allow any person to redeem, his right thereto shall not be preju­
diced thereby, and upon the submission of the evidence and the tender of
the money to the sheriff, as herein provided, he may be required by order 
of the court, or judge thereof, to allow such redemption.-Code of 1881, 
§ 376. 
§ 613. [518.] Waste may be restrained after sale. Until the ex­
piration of the time allowed for redemption, the court, or judge thereof, 
may restrain the commission of waste on the property by order granted,
with or without notice, on the application of the purchaser or judgment
creditor, but it shall not be deemed waste for the person in possession
afterwards, during the period allowed for redemption, to continue to use
it in the same manner in which it was previously used, or to use it in the
ordinary course of husbandry, or to make the necessary repairs to build­
ings thereon, or to use wood or timber on the property therefor, or for the
repair of fences, or for fuel in his family, while he occupies the property. 
-Code of 1881, § 377. 
§ 614. [519.] Purchaser entitled to possession after sale. The
purchaser from the day of sale until a 1esale or redemption, and the re­
demptioner from the day of his redemption until another redemption, 
shall be entitled to the possession of the property purchased or redeemed,
unless the same be in the possession of a tenant holding under an unex­
pired lease, and in such case shall be entitled to receive from such tenant
the rents or the value of the use and occupation thereof during the same
period.-Code of 1881, § 378. 
§ 615. [520.] When purchaser entitled to conveyance-Successor
of sheriff may execute. In all cases where real estate has been or may
hereafter be sold, in pursuance of law, by virtue of an execution or other 
process, it shall be the duty of the sheriff or other officer making such
sale to execute and deliver to the purchaser,' or other person entitled to
the same, a deed of conveyance of the real estate so sold, as follows: 
1. When such other execution or process issues upon an ordinary money
judgment, such sheriff or other officer shall execute and deliver such deed
within six months after the confirmation of such sale. 
2. When such execution or other process issues upon a decree for the
forclosure of a mortgage, such sheriff or other officer shall 'execute and
deliver such deed within five days after the confirmation of such sale. 
3. In case the term of office of the sheriff or other officer making such
sale shall have expired before a sufficient deed has been executed, then
the successor in office of such sheriff or other officer shall, within the
time specified in this 'act, execute and deliver to the purchaser, or other
person entitled to the same, a deed of the premises so sold; and such
deed shall be as valid and effectual to convey to the grantee the lands or
premises so sold as if the deed had been made by the sheriff or other 
officer who made the sale.-Code of 1881, § 379. 
§ 616. [521.] Sheriff's deed to be entered in clerk's book of
levies. The party to whom such sheriff's deed is given shall, upon the
receipt thereof, take the same to the clerk of the district court, who
shall enter in his book of levies, where the levy is recorded, the sale of
real estate therein conveyed, and shall indorse the fact upon the deed,
with the date when presented to him and when made. And no county 
· auditor shall record any such deed without such indorsement.-Code of 
1881, § 380. 
§ 617. Judgment debtor may be exa.mined within five years after
judgment-Bond for appearance-Imprisonment. At any time with­
in five years after entry of a judgment for the sum of $25 or over that
amount, and after the issuing of an execution against property,
and upon proof by the affidavit of a party or otherwise to the
satisfaction of court or a judge thereof, that any judgment debtor bas
property which he unjustly refuses to apply towards the satisfaction of
the judgment, such court or judge may, by an order, require the judg­
ment debtor to appear at a specified time and place before the judge
granting the order, or a referee appointed by him, to answer concerning
the same; and the judge to whom application is made under this act
may, if it is made to appear to him by the affidavit of the judgment cred­
itor, his agent or attorney, that there is danger of the debtor absconding,
order the sheriff to arrest the debtor and bring him before the judge
granting the order. Upon being brought before the judge he may be or­
dered. to enter into a bond, with sufficient sureties, that he will attend
from time to time before the judge or referee, as shall be directed, during
the pendency of the proceedings and until the final termination thereof,
and will not in the meantime dispose of any portion of his property not
exempt from execution. In default of entering into such a bond, he may
be committed. to prison, there to remain until the close of the examina­
tion; except that the judge may direct the sheriff to produce him from 
time to time, as required in the course of the proceedings.-Laws of 1893,
p. 435, § 1. 
Murne v. Schwabacher, 2 W. T., 130; 3 P., 899. Netzel v. Mulford, 59 How. Pr.,
452. Conway v. Hutchins, 9 Barb., 378. 
§ 618. Warrant for arrest may be vacated on three days' notice. 
A warrant issued as prescribed in the last section may be vacated or mod­
ified by the judge making the same, or by the court out of which the
execution was issued, upon ~iving three days' notice to the opposite 
party.-Laws of 1893, p. 435, ~ 2. 
§ 619. Third parties owing debtor may be examined. U pou proof
by affidavit or otherwise, to the satisfaction of the judge, that execution
has been issued as prescribed by section one of this act, and also that any 
person or corporation has personal property of the judgment debtor of
the value of twenty-five dollars or over, or is indebted to him in said
amount, the judge may make an order requiring such person or corpora­
tion, or an officer thereof, to appear at a specified time and place before
him, or a referee appointed by him, and answer concerning the same.­ 
Laws of 18?3, p. 436, § 3· 
People ex rel. v. Jones, 52 How. 95. 
§ 620. Same. An order requiring a person to attend and be exam­
ined, made pursuant to any provision of this article, must require him so
to attend and be examined either before the judge to whom the order is
returnable or before a referee designated therein. Where the examina­
tion is taken before a referee, he must certify to the judge to whom the
order is returnable all of the evidence and other proceedings taken before 
him .. ...:..Laws of 1893, p. 436, § 4. 
Everton v. Powell, 3 W., 333, 28 P., 536. Day v. Lee, 52 How. Pr. Canavan v.
McAndrew, 20 Hun. 46. . 
Note: The following section from the old law is here inserted as its provisions may not be en­
tirely superseded by the new. 
[527.] If it appear that a person or corporation alleged to have property of the
judgment debtor, or indebted to him, claims an interest in the property adverse to
him, or denies the debt, the court or jud~e may authorize, by an order to that effect,
the judgment creditor to institute an action against such person or corporation for
the recovery of such interest or debt; and the court or judge may, by an order, for­
bid a transfer or other disposition of such interest or debt until an action can be
commenced and prosecuted to judgment. Such order may be modified or vacated
by the judge granting the same, or the court in which the action is brought, at any
time, upon such terms as may be just.-Code of 18811 ~ 386. 
Everton v. Powell, 28 P., 536; 3 W., 333. 
§ 621. Parties examined to be under oath. Upon an examination
made under this act, the answer of the party or witness examined must 
be under oath. A corporation must attend by, and answer under the
oath of, an officer thereof, and the judge may, in his discretion, specify
the officer. Either party may be examined as a witness in bis own be­
half, and may produce and examine other witnesses as upon the trial of
an action. The judge or referee may adjourn any proceedings under this
act, from time to time, as he thinks proper.-Laws of 1893, p. 436, § 5. 
Sherwood v. Dolen·, 14 Hun., 191. 
§ 622. Referee must take oath unless waived. Unless the parties
expressly waive the referee's oath, a referee appointed as prescribed in
this act must, before entering upon an examination or taking testimony,
subscribe and take an oath that be will faithfully and fairly discharge his 
duty upon the reference, and make a just and true report 
the best of his understanding. The oath must be returned to the judge
with the report of the testimony.-Laws of 1893, p. 436, § 6. 
§ 623. Court may permit third party to pay sheriff debts owing
judgment debtor. At any time after the commencement of a special
proceeding authorized by this act, and before the appointment of a re­ 
ceiver therein, or the extension of a receivership thereto, the judge by
whom the order or warrant was granted or to whom it may be returnable,
may in his discretion upon proof by affidavit to his satisfaction that a
person or corporation is indebted to the judgment debtor, and upon such
notice given to such person or corporation as he deems just, or without
notice make an order permitting the person or corporation to pay the sher­
iff designated in the order a sum bn account of the alleged indebtedness
not exceeding the sum which will satisfy the execution. A payment
thus made is to the extent thereof a discharge of the indebtedness except
as against a transferee from the judgment debtor in good faith, and . for a
valuable consideration, of whose rights the person or corporation had
actual or constructive notice when the payment was made.-Laws OJ 
1893, p. 436, § 7. 
Schranth v. Dry Dock Savings Bank, 86 N. Y., 390. Calkins v. Parker, 21 Barb. 
275, 283. Gibson v. H~ggerty, 37 N. Y., 558. 
§ 624. Court may order debtor or third party to pay or deliver
property. Where it appears from the examination or testimony taken
in the special proceedings authorized by this act that the judgment
debtor has in his possession or under his control money or other personal
property belonging to him, or that one or more articles of personal prop­
erty capable of manual delivery, his right to the possession whereof is
not substantially disputed, are in the possession or under the control of
another person, the judge by whom the order or warrant was granted, or
to whom it is returnable, may in his discretion, and upon such notice 
given to such persons as he deems just, or without notice, make an order
directing the judgment debtor, or other person, immediately to pay the
money or deliver the articles of personal property to a sheriff designated
in the order, unless a receiver has been appointed or a receivership has
been extended to the special proceedings, and in that case to the re­ 
ceiver.-Laws of 1893, p. 437, § 8. 
Coombs v. Davis, 2 W. T., 466 ; 7 P. 86o. Everton v. Powell, 28 P., 536 ; 3 W., 333. 
Wright v. Cavot, 47 N. Y., Super. Ct. 229. Lynch v. Johnson, 48 N. Y., 27. 
§ 625. Sheriff's liability for money received. If the sheriff to
whom money is paid or other property is delivered, pursuant to an order 
made as prescribed in the last section of this act, does not then hold an
execution upon the judgment against the property of the judgment
debtor, he has the same rights and power, and is subject to the same du­
ties and liabilities with respect to the money or property, as if the money
had been collected or the property had been levied upon by him by virtue
of such an execution, except as provided in the next section.-Laws of 
1893, p. 437, § 9.
§ 626. Receiver may receive money from sheriff-When sheriff 
may pay direct to creditor. After a receiver has been appointed or a
receivership has been extended to the special proceedings, the judge must,
by order, direct the sheriff to pay the money, or the proceeds of the
property, deducting his fees, to the receiver; or if the case so requires to 
1according
to 
deliver to the receiver the property in his hands. But if it appears to
the satisfaction of the judge that an order appointing a receiver or ex­
tending a receivership is not necessary, he may, by an order reciting that
fact, direct the sheriff to apply the money so paid, or the proceeds of the
property so delivered, upon an execution in favor of the judgment cred­
itor issued either before or after the payment or delivery to the sheriff.­ 
Laws of 1893, p. 438, § IO. 
§ 627. Surplus to be returned to judgment debtor. Where money
is paid or property is delivered as prescribed in the last four sections and 
afterwards the special proceeding is discontinued or dismissed, or the
judgment is satisfied without resorting to the money or property, or a
balance of the money or of the proceeds of the property, or a part of the
property remains in the sheriff's or receiver's hands after satisfying the
judgment and the costs and expenses of the special proceeding, the
judge must make an order directing the sheriff or receiver to pay the
money or deliver the property so remaining in his hands to the debtor
or to such other person as appears to be entitled thereto, upon the
payment of bis fees and all other sums legally chargeable against the 
same.-Laws of 1893, p. 438, § 11.
§ 628. Injunction to prevent transfer of property, etc. The judge 
by whom the order or warrant was granted or to whom it is returnable
may make an injunction order restraining any person or corporation,
whether a party or not a party to the special proceeding, from making
or suffering any transfer or other disposition of or interference with the
property of the judgment debtor or the property or debt concerning
which any person is required to attend and be examined, until further 
· direction in the premises. Such an injunction may be made simultane­
ously with the order or warrant by which the special proceeding is insti­
tuted, and upon the same papers or afterwards, upon an affidavit showing
sufficient grounds therefor. The judge or court may, as a condition of
granting an application to vacate or modify the injunction order require
the applicant to give security in such sum and in such manner as justice
requires.-Laws of 1893, p. 438, § 12. 
People v. Randall, 73 N. Y., 416. Norris v. First Nat'l Bank, 68 N. Y., 362. 
§ 629. How injunction order served. An injunction order or an or­
der requiring a person to attend and be examined made as prescribed in
this act must be served,-- · 
1. By delivering to the person to be served a certified copy of the origi­
nal order and a copy of the affidavit on which it was made. 
2. Service upon a corporation is sufficient if made upon an officer, to
whom a copy of a summons must be delivered. Where a summons is
personally served upon a corporation, unless the officer to be served is
specially designated in the order, the order may be served by any per­
son who can serve a summons in an action.-Laws of 1893, p. 439, § 13. 
NOTB:-Sub-division 2 as punctuated, is unintelligible; it should read as follows:
Service upon a corporation is sufficient if made upon an officer to whom a
copy of a summons must be delivered, where a summons is personally
served upon a corporation ; unless the officer to be served is specially desig­
nated in the order. The order may be served by any person who can serve
a summons in an action. See~ 2452, N. Y. Code. · 
§ 630. Copy of warrant and affidavit to be given debtor when ar­
rested. The sheriff, when he arrests a judgment debtor by virtue of a
warrant issued as prescribed in this act, must deliver to him a copy of 
the warrant and of the affidavit upon which it was granted. -Laws of 
1893, p. 439, § 14. 
§ 631. How proceedings may be discontinued. A special proceed­
ing instituted as prescribed in this act may be discontinued at any time 
upon such terms as justice requires, by au order of the judge made upon
the application of the judgment creditor. Where the judgment creditor
unreasonably delays or neglects to proceed, or where it appears that his 
judgment has been satisfied, his proceedings may be dismissed upon like
terms by a like order made upon the application of the judgment debtor,
or of plaintiff in a judgment creditor's action against the debtor, or of a 
judgment creditor who has instituted either of the special proceeding[s]
authorized by this act. Where an order appointing a receiver or extend­
ing a receivership has been made in t11e course of the special proceeding,
notice of the application for an order specified in this section must be 
given in such manner as the judge deems proper, to all persons inter­
ested in the receivership as far as they can conveniently be ascertained.­ 
Laws of 1893, p. 439, § 15. 
Ammidon v. Wollcott, 15 Abb., 314. 
§ 632. Costs and fees allowed judgment creditors. The judge may
make an order allowing to the judgment creditor a fixed sum as costs,
consisting of his witness fees and referee's fees. and other disbursements, 
and of a sum in addition thereto not exceeding twenty-five dollars, and
directing the payment thereof out of any money which has come or may
come to the hands of the receiver or of the sheriff within a time specified 
in the order.-Laws of 1893, p. 439, § 16.
§ 633. When same allowed to debtor. Where the judgment debtor 
or other person against whom the special proceeding is instituted has been
examined, and property applicable to the payment of the judgment has
not been discovered, the judge may make an order allowing him a like
sum as costs, and directing the payment thereof within a time specified 
in the order by the judgment creditor.-Laws of 1893, p. 440, § 17. 
§ 634. Disobedience to order, etc., a contempt. A person who re­ 
fuses, or without sufficient excuse neglects, to obey an order of a judge
or referee made pursuant to any of the provisions of this act, and duly
served upon him, or an oral direction given directly to him by a judge or
referee in the course of the special proceeding, or to attend before a judge
or referee according to the command of a subpoena duly served upon him,
may be punished by the judge of the court out of which the execution
issued, as for contempt.-Laws of 1893, p. 440, § 18. 
Lathrop v. Clapp, 40 N. Y, 328. People v. Marston, 18 Abb., 257. 
§ 6J5. Judgment debtor not required to attend out of•his county
-Corporations. A judgment debtor who resides or does business in 
the state cannot be compelled to attend pursuant to an order made under
the provisions of this act at a place without the county where his resi­
dence or place of business is situated. Where the judgment debtor to be
examined under this [act] is a corporation the court may cause such cor­
poration to appear and be examined by making like order or orders as are
prescribed in this act, directed to any officer or officers thereof. -Laws of 
1893, p. 440, § 19. 
§ 636. No person excused from answering on grounds of fraud,
etc. A party or witness examined in a special proceeding authorized by 
this act is not excused from answering a question on the ground that his
examination will tend to convict him of a commission of a fraud, or to
prove that he has been a party to or privy to or knowing of a convey­
ance, assignment, transfer or other disposition of property for any pur­
pose ; or tnat he or another person claims to be entitled as against the
judgment creditor or receiver appointed or to be appointed in the special
proceeding to hold property derived from or through the judgment debtor,
or to be discharged from the payment of a debt which was due the judg­
ment debtor or to a person in his behalf. But an answer cannot be used
as evidence against the person so answering in a criminal action or crimi­
nal proceeding.-Laws of 1893, p. 440, § 20. 
Tinker v. Crooks, 22 Hun, 579. Reynolds v. Gilchrist, 9 Hun, 203. 
§ 637. Property of defendant not summoned may be reached. 
When in proceedings under this act, personal service of the summons in
the action was not made on all of the defendants, a debt due to, or other
personal property owned by, one or more of the defendants not sum­
moned jointly with the defendants summoned, or with any of them, may
be reached by proceedings under this act.-Laws of 1893, p. 441, § 21. 
§ 638. Proceedings commenced before one judge may be heard
by another. A special proceeding under this act instituted before one 
judge may be continued from time to time before another of the same
court with like effect as if it had been instituted or commenced before 
the judge who last heard the same.-Laws of 1893, p. 441, § 22. 
§ 639. Act applies to justice court judgments. This act shall
apply to judgments recovered in justice court upon which a transcript 
has been issued and filed with the clerk of the superior court.-Laws of 
1893, p. 441, § 23. 
§ 640. Proceeding may be heard before any superior court, or
judge thereof. Proceedings under this act may be instituted before the 
superior courts of this state or before any judge of said superior courts.­
Laws of 1893, p. 441, § 24. 
§ 641. Exempt property cannot be reached-Wages for sixty days
exempt. This act does not authorize the seizure of, or other interfer­
ence with, any property which is expressly exempt by law from levy and 
sale by virtue of an execution, or any money, thing in action or other
property held in trust for a judgment debtor where the trust has been
created by, or the fund so held in trust has proceeded from, a person
other than the judgment debtor; or the earnings of the judgment debtor
for his personal services rendered within sixty days next before the insti­
tution of the special proceeding, where it is made to appear by his oath
or otherwise that those earnings are necessary for the use of a family
wholly or partly supported by his labor.-Laws of 1893, p. 441 § 25. 
Dickenson v. Ouderdonk, 18 N. Y., 479. Newell v. Cutler, 19 Hun, 74. 
§ 642. No jury allowed. Proceedings under this act are special pro­
ceedings and shall be heard by the judge or referee before whom the
same are returnable without a jury.-Laws of 1893, p. 441, § 26. 
§ 643. Referees' fees flve dollars per day. The fees of referees
appointed in proceedings under this act shall be five dollars per day.­ 
Laws of 1893, p. 441, § 27. 
§ 644. Provisions for appointment of receiver. At any time after
making an order requiring the judgment debtor or any other person to 
attend and be examined, or the issuing of a warrant, as prescribed in
this act, the judge to whom the order or warrant is returnable, or the
court out of which the order was issued, may make an order appointing
a receiver of the property of the judgment debtor. At least two clays' notice
of the application for the order appointing a receiver must be given person­
ally to the judgment debtor, unless the judge or court is satisfied that he
cannot, with reasonable diligence, be found within the state, in which
case the order must recite that fact and may dispense with the notice, or
may direct notice to be given in any manner which the judge thinks
proper. But where the order to attend and be examined or the warrant
has been served upon the judgment debtor, a receiver may be appointed
upon the return day thereof, or at the close of the examination, without 
further notice to him.-Laws of 1893, p. 441, § 28. 
Myers v. Case, 2 Abb., 476. Bailey v. Lane, 15 Abb., 3H· 
§ 645. Same when other proceedings pending. The judge must
ascertain, if practicable, by the oath of the judgment debtor or other­
wise, whether any other special proceeding authorized by this act is pend­ 
ing against the judgment debtor, or if a receiver has been appointed or
application has been made for the appointment of a receiver of the prop­
erty of the judgment debtor in any other action by a judgment creditor.
If either is pending and a receiver bas not been appointed therein, notice
of the application for the appointment of a receiver, and of all the subse­
quent proceedings respecting the receivership, must be given in such
manner as the judge directs to the judgment creditor prosecuting it.-Laws 
of 1893, p. 442, § 29. 
§ 646. But one receiver allowed. Only one receiver of the property
of the judgment debtor shall be appointed. Where a receiver thereof. 
has already been appointed the judge, instead of making the order pre­
scribed in the last section, must make an order extending the receiver­
ship to the special proceedings before him. Such an order gives to the
judgment creditor the same rights as if a receiver was appointed upon his 
application, including the right to apply to the court to control, direct or
remove the receiver, or to subordinate the proceedings in or by which the
receiver was appointed to those taken under his judgment.-Laws of 
1893, p. 442, § 30. 
§ 647. Order appointing receiver must be filed with clerk. An 
order appointing a receiver or extending a receivership must be filed in
the office of the county clerk wherein the judgment roll in the action is
filed ; or if the special proceeding is founded upon an execution issued
out of a court other than that in which the judgment was rendered, in
the office of the clerk of the county wherein the transcript of the judg­ 
ment is filed.-Laws of 1893, p. 442, § 31. 
§ 648. When property is vested in receiver. The property of the
judgment debtor is vested in a receiver, who has duly qualified, from the 
time of filing the order appointing him or extending his receivership, as
the case may be, subject to the following exceptions : 
1. Real property is vested in the receiver only from the time when the
order, or a certified copy thereof, as the case may be, is filed with the
auditor of the county where it is situated. 
2. When the judgme~t debtor, at the time when. the order is filed, 1w 
sides in another county of the state, his personal property is vested in the
receiver only from the time when a copy of the order,' certified by the
auditor in whose office it is recorded, is filed with the auditor of the 
county where he resides.-Laws of 1893, p. 443, § 32.
§ 649 .. Receiver's title to personal property relates back. Where 
the receiver's title to personal property has become vested, as prescribed 
in the last section, it also extends back by relation, for the benefit of the 
judgment creditor, in whose behalf the special proceeding was instituted
as follows: 
1. When an order requiring. the judgment debtor to attend and be ex­
amined, or a warrant requiring the sheriff to arrest him and bring him
before the judge, has been served, before the appointment of the receiver,
or the extension of the receivership, the receiver's title extends back so
as to include the personal property of the judgment debtor at the time
of the service of the order or warrant. 
2. Where an order or warrant has not been served as specifi~ in the
foregoing subdivision, but an order has been made requiring a person to
attend and be examined concerning property belonging or a debt due to
the judgment debtor, the receiver's title extends to the personal property
belonging to the judgment debtor, which was in the hands or under the
control of the person or corporation thus required to attend at the time of
the service of the order, and to a debt then due to him from that person
or corporation. 
3. In every other case where notice of application for the appointment
of a receiver was given to the judgment debtor, the receiver's title ex­
tends to the personal property of the judgment debtor at the time when
the notice was served, either personally or by complying with the require­
ments [or] [ef] an order prescribing a substitute for personal service. 
4. Where the case is within two or more of the foregoing subdivisions
of this section, the rule most favorable to the judgment creditor must be
adopted. But this section does not affect the title of a purchaser in good
faith without notice, and for a valuable consideration ; or the payment of
a debt in good faith and without notice.-Laws of 1893, p. 443, § 33. 
§ 650. Olerk to make entry in book of receivers. Each county
clerk must keep in his office a book indexed to the names of the judg­ 
ment debtors, styled "book of orders appointing receivers of judgment
debtors.'' A county clerk in whose office an order or a certified copy of
an order is filed, as prescribed in this act, must immediately note there­
upon the time of filing it, and as soon as practicable,. must record it in
the book so kept by him. He must also, upon request, furnish forthwith
to any party or person interested, one or more certified copies thereof.
For each omission to comply with any provision of this section, a county
clerk forfeits to the party aggrieved two hundred and fifty dollars, in
addition to all damages sustained by reason of the omission. -Laws of 
1893, p. 444, § 34. 
§ 651. [792.] Plea.dings not to be deemed proof. Pleadings sworn
to by either party in any case shall not, on the trial, be deemed proof of 
the facts alleged therein, nor require other or greater proof on the part of
the adverse party.-Code of 1881, § 741. 
Or. Ry. & N. Co. v. Dacres, 23 P. 415, I W., 195. 
§ 652. [793.] Hew party entitled to notice. When a new party is
introduced into an action, as a representative or successor of a former
party, such new party is entitled to the same notice, to be given in the 
same manner, as required for defendants in the commencement of an
action.-Code of 1881, § 742. 
§ 653. [822.] Notice must be given after appearance. When a
party to an action has appeared in the same, he shall be entitled to at 
least three days' notice of any trial, hearing, motion or application to be 
had or made therein, before any judge at chambers; which [motion] 
[notice] shall be in writing, setting forth the nature of the motion or
application and the grounds thereof, and specifying the time and place
where the same will be made, and which may be served on the adverse
party or his attorney; but if neither such party or his attorney reside
in the county in which the action or proceeding is pending, or where
such motion or application is to be made, then service by mail may be
had on such party or his attorney, by mailing to either of them a copy of
such notice, properly addressed, with the postage thereon paid, at least 
ten days before the time appointed for such hearing or application.-Code 
of 1881, § 2140. 
§ 654. Time, how computed. The time within which an act is to be
done shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. 
If the last day falls on a Sunday it shall be excluded.-Laws of 1893, p.
415, § 26. 
The corresponding section ot the old law is as follows :
[794.] The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall be 
computed by excluding the first day and including the last, unless the last day is a
holiday or Sunday, and then it is also excluded.-Laws of 1887-8, p. 32, ~ I. 
Thompson v. Huron Lum. Co., 32 P. 536. 
§ 655. [795.] Process, to whom directed. Unless otherwise pro­
vided by statute, all process issuing out of the court shall be directed to 
the sheriff of the county in which it is to be served, and be by him exe­
cuted according to law.-Laws of 1891, p. 84, § 5. 
§ 656. [796.] How service made when sheriff" is disqualified. 
When there is no sheriff of a county, or he is disqualified from any cause
from discharging any particular duty, it shall be lawful for the officer or
person commanding or desiring the discharge of that duty, to appoint
some suitable person, a citizen of the county, to execute the same: Pro­ 
uided, that final process shall in no case be executed by any other person
than the legally authorized officer ; or in case he is disqualified, some
suitable person appointed by the court, or judge thereof, out of which
the process issues, who shall make such appointment in writing; and be­
fore such appointment shall take effect, the person so appointed shall give
security to the party interested for the faithful performance of his duties,
which bond of suretyship shall be in writing, be approved by the court
or judge appointing him, and be placed on file with the papers in the
case.-Code oj 1881, § 745. 
§ 657. [797.] Service of notice-Proof-Admission of service. In
all cases where notice is required by this code, it shall be in writing, and 
must be duly served upon the party. If served by an officer whose duty
it is to serve process, his return shall be sufficient. It may be served,
however, when not otherwise especially provided herein, by any disinter­
ested person ; in which event, proof of service must be established by the
affidavit of the person making such service ; provided, the written admis­
sion of service of the party, his agent or attorney, shall be equivalent to 
personal service.-Code of 1881, § 746. 
§ 658. Notices to be in writing. Notices shall be in writing; and
notices and other papers may be served on the party or attorney in the 
manner prescribed in the next three sections where not otherwise pro­
vided by statute.-Laws oJ 1893, p. 413, § 18. 
§ 659. How service may be m$.de. The services may be personal or
by delivery to the party or attorney on whom service is required to be 
made, or it may be as follows : . 
1. If upon an attorney, it may be made during his absence from his
office by leaving the papers with his clerk therein, or with a person having
charge thereof; or, when there is no person in the office, by leaving it
between the hours of six in the morning and nine in the evening in a con­
spicuous place in the office; or, if it is not open to admit of such service,
then by leaving it at the attorney's residence with some person of suitable
age and discretion. 
2. If upon a party, it may be made by leaving the papers at his resi­
dence between the hours of six in the morning arid nine in the evening,
with some person of suitable age and discretion.-Laws of 1893, p. 
413, ~ 19. 
§ 660. Service by mail. Service by mail may be made when the per­
son making the service and the person on whom it is to be made reside in
different places, between which there is a regular communication by mail. 
-Laws of 1893, p. 414, § 20. 
§ 661. Double time shall be given such service. In case of service
by mail, the papers shall be deposited in the postoffice, addressed to the
person on whom it is served, at his' place of residence, and the postage 
paid; and in such case the time of service shall be .double that required
in case of personal service.-Laws of 1893~ p. 414, § 21. 
§ 662. Service on non-resident parties. Where a plaintiff or de­
fendant who has appeared resides out of the state and bas no attorney in
the action, the service may be made by mail if his residence is known;
if not known, on the clerk for him. But where a party, whether resident
or non-resident, has an attorney in the action, the service of papers
shall be upon the attorney instead of the party. But if the attorney
shall have removed from the state, such service may be made upon him
personally either within or without the state, or by mail to him at bis 
place of residence, if known, and if not known, then by mail upon the
party, if the residence is known, whether within or without the state.
And if the residence of neither party or attorney are known, the service
may be made upon the clerk for the attomey.-Laws of 1893, p. 414, § 
22. 
§ 663. Provisions not to apply to summons, etc. The provisions of
the four preceding sections do not apply to the service of a summons or 
other process, or of any paper to bring a party into contempt.-Laws of 
1893, p. 414, § 23. 
§ 664. Defective notices. A notice or other paper is valid and effect­
ual though the title of the action in which it is made is omitted, or [if] it is
defective either in respect to the court or parties, if it intelligently refers
to such action or proceedings; and in furtherance of justice upon proper
terms, any other defect or error in any notice or other paper or proceed­
ing may be amended by the court, and any mischance, omission or defect
relieved within one year thereafter; and the court may enlarge or extend
the time, for good cause shown, within which, by statute any act is to be
done, proceeding had or taken, notice [of] [or] paper filed or served, or
may, on such terms as are just, permit the same to be done or supplied
after the time therefor has expired, except that the time for bringing a
writ of error or appeal shall in no case be enlarged, or a party permitted
to bring such writ of error or appeal after the time therefor has expired. 
-Laws of 1893, p. 414, § 24. 
§ 665. Weekly publication of notices. The publication of legal
notices required by law, or by an order of a judge or court, to be pub­
lished in a newspaper once in each week for a specified number of weeks
shall be made on the day of each week in which such newspaper is pub­ 
lished.-Laws of 1893, p. 415, § 27. 
§ 666. :rees for publication need not be paid sheriif. In any suit
or proceeding, in any court of this state, requiring a legal publication, 
said publication shall be made in any newspaper, of general circulation
in the county, designated by the party or his attorney, at whose instance
the said publication is made. A tender of a receipt from the publisher 
· of the said newspaper, as full payment for said publication shall be ac­
cepted by the sheriff, or court, as payment in lieu of the cash payment of 
fees for same.-Laws of 1893, p. 62, § 1. 
§ 667. [1553.*] Notice may be served by telegraph. Whenever any
notice, information or intelligence, written or otherwise, is required to be
given, the same may be given by telegraph: Provided, that the dispatch 
containing the same be delivered to the person entitled thereto, or to his
agent or attorney. Notice by telegraph shall be deemed actual notice.­ 
Code of 1881, § 2353. 
§ 668. [1554.*] Deeds, etc., may be sent by telegraph. Any power
of attorney, or other instrument in writing, duly proved or acknowl­
edged, and certified so as to be entitled to record, may, together with the 
certificate of its proof or acknowledgement, be sent by telegraph, and tele­
graphic copy, or duplicate thereof, shall, pn'ma facie, have the same force
and effect, in all respects, and may be admitted to record and recorded in
the same manner and with like effect as the original.-Code of I 88 1, § 2 354. 
§ 669. [1558.*] Writs in ·civil action served by telegraph. Any
writ or order in any civil suit or proceeding, and all the papers requiring 
service, may be transmitted by telegraph for service in any place, and the
telegraphic copy of such writ or order or paper so transmitted, may be
served or executed by the officer or person to whom it is sent for that pur­
pose, and returned by him, if any return be requisite, in the same man­
ner, and with the same force and effect in all respects, as the original
thereof might be, if delivered to him, and the officer or person serving or
executing the same, shall have the same authority and be subject to the
same liabilities as if the said copy were the original. The original, when
a writ [of] [or] order, shall also be filed in the court from which it was is­
sued, and a certified copy thereof shall be preserved in the telegraph office
from which it was sent ; in sending it, either the original or certified copy
may be used by the operator for that purpose.-Code of 1881, § 2358. 
§ 670. [1552*.] Contracts by telegi:aph same as written. Contracts
made by telegraph shall be deemed to be contracts in writing ; and all 
communications sent by telegraph and signed by the person or persons
sending the same, or by his or their authority, shall be held and deemed
to be communications in writing.-Code of 1881, § 2352. 
CHAPTER LV. 
SET-OFFS, FOREIGN JUDGMENTS, ETC,
l 6iI. When and what set-offs allowed. i 676. Set-offs must be pleaded, 
f 672. Demand against beneficiary may be set i 677. Judgment to be given for balance only
off against trustee. i 678. No judgment for defendant when plain- 
t 673. Demand against decedent may be set off tiff is assignee.
against executor. i 679. Judgments from other states. 
i 6i4· Judgment for defendant in such cases. f 68o. Defense to 
011Uits
on judgments. 
I 675. Executors may set off decedent's claims i 681. Execution agaiDSt joint property of de-
against plaintiff'. fendant and others. 
§ 671. [806.] When and what set-offs allowed. The defendant in a
civil action expressed or implied, may set off any demand of a like 
nature against the plaintiff in interest, which existed and belonged to
him at the time of the commencement of the suit. And in all such
actions other than upon a negotiable promissory note or bill of exchange, ·
negotiated in good faith and without notice before due, which has been
assigned to the plaintiff, he may also set off a demand of a like nature
existing against the person to whom he was originally liable, or any assignee
prior to the plaintiff, of such contract, provided such demand existed at
the time of the assignment thereof, and belonging to the defendant in
good faith before notice of such assignment, and was such a demand as
might have been set off against such person to whom be was originally
liable, or such assignee while the contract belonged tohim.-Codeef 1881, 
§ 497.
§ 672. [807.] Demand against beneficiary may be set oft" against 
trustee. If the plaintiff be a trustee to any other, or if the action be in
the name of the plaintiff who has no real interest in the contract upon
which the action is founded, so much of the demand existing against
those whom the plaintiff represents or for whose benefit the action is
brought, may be set off as will satisfy the plaintiff's debt, if the same
might have been set off in an action brought by those beneficially inter­
ested. -Code of 1881, § 498. 
§ 67 3. (808.] Demand against decedent may be set oft" against
executor. In actions brought by executors and administrators, demands
against their testators and intestates, and belonging to defendant at the 
time of their death, may be set off by the defendant in the same manner 
as if the action had been brought by and in the name of the deceased.­
Code ef 188 1, § 499. 
§ 67 4. [809.] Judgment for defendant in such cases. When a set­
off shall be established in an action brought by executors or administra­
tors, and a balance found due to the defendant, the judgment rendered 
thereon against the plaintiff shall have the ~ame effect as if the action
had been originally commenced by the defendant.-Code of 1881, § 500. 
§ 675. [810.] Bxecuton may set oft" decedent's claim against
plaintiff. In actions against executors and administrators and against
trustees and others, sued in their representative character, the defend­ 
ants may set off demands belonging to their testators or intestates or
those whom they represent, in the same manner as the person[s] so.rep­
resented would have been entitled to set-off the same, in an action
against them.-Code of 1881, § 501. 
§ 676. (811.] Set-oft" must be pleaded. To entitle a defendant to a
set-off he must set the same forth in his answer.-Code of 1881, § 502. 
§ 677. [812.] Judgment to be given for balance only. If the
amount of the set-off, duly established, be equal to the plaintiff's debt or 
demand, judgment shall be rendered that the plaintiff take nothing by
his action; if it be less than the plaintiff's debt or demand, the plain­ 
tiff shall have judgment for the residue only.-Code of 1881, § 503.
§ 678. [813.] No judgment for defendant when plaintiff" is 
assignee. If there be found a balance due from the plaintiff in the action
to the defendant, judgment shall be rendered in favor of the defendant
for the amount thereof, but no such judgment shall be rendered against
the plaintiff when the contract, which is the subject of the action, shall
have been assigned before the commencement of such action, nor for any 
10 
balance due from any other person than the plaintiff in the action.-Code 
of 1881, § so4. 
§ 679. [804.] Judgments from other states. Judgment for debt ren­
dered in any other state or any territory against any person or persons 
residents of this state at the time of the rendition of such judgment,
shall not be of any higher character as evidence of indebtedness than the
original claim or demand upon which such judgment is rendered, unless
such judgment shall be rendered upon personal service of summons,
notice or other due process against the defendant therein.-Laws of 1891, 
p. 70, §1.
§ 680. [805.] Defense to suits on judgments. The same defense to 
suits on judgment rendered without such personal service may be made
by the judgment debtor which might have been set up in the original 
proceeding.-Code of 1881, § 740. 
§ 681. [802.] Execution against joint property of defendant and
others. When a defendant in execution owns real estate subject to exe­
cution, jointly or in common with any other person, the judgment-shall
be a lien, and the execution be levied upon the interest of the defendant
only. When he owns personal property jointly, or in co-partnership with
any other person, and the interest cannot be separately attached, the
sheriff shall take possession of the property, unless the other person
having an interest therein shall give the sheriff a sufficient bond, with
surety, to hold and manage the property according to law; and the sheriff
shall then proceed to sell the interest of the defendant in such property,
describing such interest in his advertisement as nearly as may be, and the
purchaser shall acquire all the interest of such defendant therein ; but
nothing herein contained shall be so construed as to deprive the co-part­
ner of any such defendant of his interest in any· such property .-Code of 
1881, §§ 751, 752. (Enrolled copy§ 752,) see§ 701. 
i 682. When court may appoint commis- i 685. Same.
sioners. i 686. Deed must be approved by the court. 
I 683. Contents of commissioner's deed. i 687. Commissioner's signature sufficient. 
i 684. Commissioner's deed conveys party's ! 688. When deed must be recorded.
title. i 68g. Court may order party to convey. 
§ 682. [814.J When court may appoint commissioners. The sev­
eral district courts may, whenever it is necessary, appoint a commissioner 
to convey real estate: 
CHAPTER L VI. 
COMMISSIONER'S mums. 
I. When, by a judgment in an action, a party is ordered to convey real
property to another, or any interest therein. 
2. When real property, or any interest therein, has been sold under a
special order of the court and the purchase money paid therefor.-Code of 
1881, § 528.
§ 683. [815.] Contents of commissioner's deed. The deed of the 
commissioner shall so refer to the judgment authorizing the conveyance,
that the same may be readily found, but need not recite the record in the 
case generally. - Code of 1881, § 529. 
§ 684. [816.] Commissioner's deed conveys party's title. A con­
veyance made in pursuance of a judgment shall pass to the grantee the title of the parties ordered to convey the land. - Code of 1881, § 530.
§ 685. [817.] Same. A conveyance made in pursuance of a sale 
ordered by the court, shall pass to the grantee the title of all the parties
to the action or proceeding.-Code of 1881, § 531. 
§ 686. [818.] Deed must be approved by the court. A conveyance
by a commissioner shall not pass any right until it has been examined 
and approved by the court, which approval shall be indorsed on the con­
veyance and recorded with it.-Code of 1881, § 532. 
§ 687. [819.] Commissioner's signature sufllcient. It shall be suf­
ficient for the conveyance to be signed by the commissioner only, without 
affixing the name of the parties whose title is conveyed, but the names of
the parties shall be recited in the body of the conveyance.-Code of 1881, 
§ 533.
§ 688. (820.] When deed must be recorded. The conveyance shall 
be recorded in the office in which by law it should have been recorded had
it been made by the parties whose title is conveyed by it.~Code of 1881, 
§ 534·
§ 689. [821.] Court may order party to convey. In case of a judg­ 
ment to compel a party to execute a conveyance of real estate, the court
may enforce the judgment by attachment or sequestration, or appoint a
commissioner to make the conveyance.-Code of 1881, § 535. 
CHAPTER L VII. 
OTHER .MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS. 
i 6go. False charges actionable. i 697. Attorney's fees in actions for injury to 
i 6g1. Sureties may be examined by officer stock.
giving bail. i 6g8. Sheriff' not liable for damages unless fees 
i 6g2. Bonds not tc;, fail for irregularities, paid in advance. 
i 6cJ3. Money may be deposited for bail. i 6gg. Pleading existence of city or town. 
f 694. Suit for wages on time checks, etc.- I 700. Pleading ordinance of city or town.
Attorneys fees and damages. I 701. Action for damages for death of man 
l 695. Notes given for gaming debts void. killed in a duel. 
i 6g6. Duty of railroad companies to fence
against stock. 
§ 690. [798.] l'alse charges actionable. Every charge of incest,
fornication, adultery, or whoredom falsely made by any person against a
female ; also words falsely spoken of any person charging such person 
with incest or the infamous crime against nature, either with mankind or
the brute creation, shall be accountable [actionable] in the same manner
as in the case of slanderous words charging a crime, the commission of
which would subject the offender to death or other degrading penalties.­ 
Code of 1881, § 747.
§ 6g 1. [799.] Sureties may be examined by ofllcer giving bail. 
Every court and officer authorized to take any bail or surety, shall have
power to examine on oath the person offering to become such bail or
surety, concerning his property, and sufficiency as such bail or surety.­ 
Code of 1881, § 748. 
§ 692. (800.] Bonds not to fail for irregularities. No bond
required by law, and intended as such bond, shall be void for want of 
form or substance, recital or condition; nor shall the principal or surety
on such account be discharged, but all the parties thereto shall be held
and bound to the full extent contemplated by the law requiring the
same, to the amount specified in such bond. In all actions on such 
· defective bond, the plaintiff may state its legal effect, in the same manner
as though it were a perfect bond.-Code ef 1881, § 749. 
Thrig v. Scott, 32 P., 467. 
§ 693. [801.] Money may be deposited for bail. Any person
required to give bail, may deposit with the clerk the amount of money
for which be is required to give bail, and thereupon be discharged from
arrest. --Code of 1881, § 7 50. · 
§ 694. [2533.*] Suits for wages on time checks, etc.-Attorney's
fee and damages. Whenever any person or persons, company or cor­
poration is compelled to sue for the recovery of the face value of check,
memorandum, token, or evidence of indebtedness; issued or circulated for 
the payment of wages for labor, by reason of the failure of any person,
firm, company, or [person] [corporation] issuing the same, failing or refus­
ing to pay the same on demand, as provided by the first section of this
act, then in such case, if judgment should be granted the plaintiff, the
court shall tax an attorney's fee of not less than ten nor more than twenty­
five dollars to said judgment, and the further sum of twenty-five dollars
as damages to the plaintiff, suffered by the plaintiff by reason of being
compelled to sue the said claim ; provided, that no plaintiff shall re­
cover more than the face value of his said claim where the payment is
refused by reason of a dispute as to the ownership of the said claim, or
where it appears satisfactorily to the court or jury that the defendant
had a sufficient excuse for the refusal of the payment of the said claim;
the burden to prove the said sufficient excuse being on the defendant,
and should the court or jury find such sufficient excuse, the same is to
be specified in the judgment or verdict of said court or jury.-Laws of 
1887-88, p. 235, ~ :;.
§ 695. [148.t] Notes given for gaming debts void. All notes, bills, 
bonds, mortgages or other securities, or other conveyances, the considera­
tion for which shall be money, or other things of value, won by playing
at any unlawful game, shall be void and of no effect as between. the par­
ties to the same and all other persons, except holders in good faith with­
out notice of the illegality of such contract or conveyance.-Laws of 1891,
p. 125, § 21. 
§ 696. Duty of railroad companies to fence against stock. That
in all actions against persons or corporations owning or operating steam
railways in the state of Washington, for injuries to stock of any kind, 
except hogs, by collision with moving trains, it shall be prima fade evi­
dence of negligence on the part of the defendant to show that the railroad
track was not fenced so as to tum said stock from the track. -Laws of 
1893, p. 418, § I. 
§ 697. Attorney's fee in actions for injury to stock. In all actions
for injury to stock by collision with moving railway trains where the 
plaintiff shall recover, and in actions to recover a penalty under this act
in which the plaintiff shall recover judgment, the judge shall allow a 
reasonable attorney's fee to be. taxed as a part of the costs.-Laws of
1893, p. 419, § 4· 
§ 698. [328. *] When sheriff' not liable for neglect or refusal to
serve process. No sheriff, deputy sheriff, or coroner shall be 1iable1 for
any damages for neglecting or refusing to serve any civil process unless 
his legal fees, and an indemnifying bond, if he requires one, are first ten­
dered him.-Code of 1881, § 2772. 
§ 699. [767. *] Pleading existence of city or town. In pleading the
existence of any city or town in this territory, it shall be sufficient to state
in such pleading that the same is an existing city or town, incorporated or 
organized under the laws of Washington territory.-Code of 1881, 
§ 2063.
§ 700. [768. *] Pleading ordinance of city or town. In pleading any 
ordinance of a city or town in this territory, it shall be sufficient to state
the title of such ordinance and the date of its passage, whereupon the
court shall take judicial knowledge of the existence of such ordinance,
and the tenor and effect thereof. -Code of 1881, § 2o64. 
§ 701. Action for damages for death of man killed in a duel. 
The widow, or widow and children, or child or children if no
widow, of a man killed in a duel, shall have a right of action against the
person killing him and against the seconds, and all aiders or abettors, and
shall recover such sum as to the jury shall seem reasonable.-Code of 
1881 (enrolled copy), § 751. 
Graetz v. McKenzie, 28 P., 331; 3 W., 194. Dahl v. Tibbals, 31 P., 868. 
See~ 157. 
i 702. Laws to be liberally construed. i ,of,, Words of number, gender, etc. 
i 703. Continuation of existing laws, i 707. " Month " shall mean calendar month. 
i 704- " Person " a common term. i 7o8. Abrogation of former statutes. 
i ?OS. "Officer" construed. i 709. Extent of such abrogation. 
§ 702. [1707.] Laws to be liberally construed. The provisions of
this code shall be liberally construed, and shall not be limited by any 
rule of strict construction.-Laws of 1891, p. 40, § 1.
§ 703. [1708.] Continuation of existing laws. The provisions of a 
statute, so far as they are substantially the same as those of a statute ex­
isting at the time of their enactment, must be construed as continuations
thereof.-Laws of 1891, p, 40, § 1. 
§ 704. [1709.] "Person" a common term. The term 
person"
may be construed to include the United States, this state, or any state or
territory, or any public or private corporation, as well as an individual. 
-Laws of 1891, p. 40, § 1. 
CHAPTER LVIII. 
CONSTRUCTION. 
§ 705. [1710.] "Officer" construed. Whenever any term indicating
an officer is used it shall be construed, when required, to mean any person 
authorized by law to discharge the duties of such officer.-Code of 1881, 
§ 755. . 
II 
§ 706. [1712.] Words of number, gender, etc. Words importing
the singular number may also be applied to the plural of persons and 
things ; words importing the plural may be applied to the singular ; and
words importing the masculine gender may be extended to females also. 
-L:aws of 1891, p. 40, § 1. 
§ 707. [ 1713.] "Months " shall mean calendar months. The word
" month" or " months," whenever the same occurs in the statutes of
this state now in force, or in statutes hereafter enacted, or in any contract 
made in this state, shall be taken and construed to mean '' calendar
months. "-Laws of 1891, p. 40, § I. 
§ 708. Abrogation of former statutes. No statute law, or rule is
continued in force because it is consistent with the provisions of this 
[code] [ad*] on the same subject; but in all cases provided for by this
[code] [ad], all statutes, laws and rules heretofore in force in this terri­
tory, whether consistent or not with the provisions of this [code] [act], 
unless expressly continued in force by it, are repealed and abrogated. -
Code of 1881, § 762. 
§ 709. Extent of such abrogation. This repeal, or abrogation, does
not revive any former law heretofore repealed, nor does it affect any
rights already existing or accrued, or any action or proceeding already
taken, except as in this [code] [ad] provided; nor does it affect any
private statute not expressly repealed.-Code of 1881, § 763. 
§ 710. What constitutes, and who may have. Any party to any
action or proceeding may, at any stage thereof, have any rulings or de­ 
cisions of the court, or a judge, referee or commissioner thereof, in the
cause, together with the necessary evidence, papers or proceedings con­
nected therewith or on which the same were based, and the exceptions
thereto, if any, not already a part of the record in the cause, or so much
of all or any thereof as is not already a part of the record, made a part
of the record in the cause by the certifying of a bill of exceptions as in
this act provided. And any such party may, after the making of an ap­
pealable order or the final judgment in the cause, have all rulings, de­
cisions, evidence, papers, proceedings and exceptions in the cause, or so
much thereof as may be material to an appeal from such appealable order
or from the final judgment, as the case may be, not already a part of the
record, made a part of the record in the cause by the certifying of a state­
ment of facts, as in this act provided. The certifying of a bill of excep­
tions or statement of facts shall not prevent the subsequent certifying of
other bills of exceptions or statements of facts, or both, comprising other
matters in the cause, at the instance of the same or another party ; but
only one bill of exceptions or statement of facts can be settled or certified
after the rendition of the final judgment in the cause.-Laws of 18931 p. 
114, § 8. 
§ 711. Bill or statement served and flied-Amendments-Settle­
ment. A party desiring to have a bill of exceptions or statement of facts
certified must prepare the same as proposed by him, file it in the cause, 
and serve a copy thereof on the adverse party, and shall also serve writ­
ten notice of the filing thereof on any other party who has appeared in
the cause. Within ten days after such service any other party may file
and serve on the proposing party, any amendments which he may pro­
pose to the bill or statement. Either party may then serve upon the
other a written notice that he will apply to the judge of the court before
whom the cause is pending or was tried, at a time and place specified, the
time to be not less than three nor more than ten days after service of the
notice, to settle and certify the bill or statement; and at such time and
place, or at any other time or place specified in an .adjoumment made by
order or stipulation, the judge shall settle and certify the bill or state­
ment. If the judge is absent at the time named in a notice or fixed by
adjournment, a new notice may be served. If no amendment shall be
served within the time aforesaid, the proposed bill or statement shall be
deemed agreed to, and shall be certified by the judge at the instance of
either party, at any time, without notice to any other party, on proof
being filed of its service, and that no amendments have been proposed ;
and if amendments be proposed atid [excepted] [accepted], the bill or
statement, as so amended shall likewise be certified on proof being filed of
its service and the service and acceptance of the amendments.-Laws of 
1893, p. 114, § 9·
See note at end of this chapter. 
Snyder v. Kelso, 3 W., 181; 28 P., 335. Enos v. Wilcox, 3 W., 44; 28 P., 364.
Boyer v. Boyer, 29 P., 981; 4 W., So. Littlejohn v. Miller, 31 P., 758. Cogswell V· 
West St. & N. E. Blee. Ry. ce., 31 P., 411; 5 W. Ledyard v. W. $. & N. E. Elec.
Ry. Co., 31 P., 417. Kennedy v. Derickson, 31 P., 766. Sadler v. Niess, 31 P., 630.
Howe v. Kenyon, 30 P., 1059; 4 W., 677. Thompson v. Huron Lumber Co., 32 P.,
536. Mooney v. State, 2 W., 487; 28 P., 363. Caldwell v. First National Bank, 3
W., 188; 28 P., 365. 
§ 712. Depositions, etc., shall be attached and become a part
tnereof. Depositions and other written evidence on file shall be appro­
priately referred to in the proposed bill or statement, and when it is certi­ 
fied the same, or copies thereof, if the judge so direct, shall be attached
to the bill or statement and shall thereupon become a part thereof.-Laws 
of 1893, p. I 15 § IO. . 
Healy v. Seward, 31 P., 874. 
§ 713. Certificate of the judge. The judge shall certify that the
matters and proceedings embodied in the bill or statement, as the case
may be, are matters and proceedings occurring in the cause and that the
same are thereby made a part of the record therein; and, when such is
the fact, he shall further certify that the same contains all the material
facts, matters and proceedings heretofore occurring in the cause and not
already a part of the record therein, or (as the case may be) such thereof
as the parties have agreed to be all that are material therein. The cer­
tificate shall be signed by the judge, but need not be sealed ; and there­
upon all the matters and proceedings embodied in the bill of exceptions
or statement of facts, as the case may be, shall become and thenceforth
remain a part of the record in the cause, for all the purposes thereof and
of any appeal therein. The judge may correct or supplement his certifi­
cate according to the fact, at any time before an appeal is heard. And if 
the judge refuse to settle or certify a bill of exceptions or statement of
facts, or to correct or supplement his certificate thereto, in a proper case,
he may be compelled so to do by a mandate issued out of the supreme
court, either pending an appeal or prior thereto.-Laws of 1893, p. 115,
§ II. 
See note at the end of this chapter.
Madigan v. West Coast Ins. Co., 3 W., 454; 28 P., 1027. Harker v. Crosby, 3 W., 
377; 28 P., 745. Metcalf v. Bush, 30 P., 325; 4 W., 386. State v. Carey, 30 
P., 729; 4 W., 424. Schlaechter v. Miller, 30 P., 745; 4 W., 463. Tacoma
Foundry Co v. Wolff, 30 P., 1053; 4 W., 818. McReavy v. Eshelman, 31 P., 
35; 4 W., 757. Doyle v. McLeod, 31 P., 96; 4 W., 732. Clark-Harris v.
Douthet, 31 P., 422; 4 W., 465. McCarty v. Hayden, 30 P., 637; 4 W., 537. 
McKinnon v. Kingston L. & I. Co., 30 P., 642; 4 W., 535. Likens v. Cain, 
30 P., So; 4 W., 307. Clark v. Wyatt, 30 P. 744. Small v. Geddis, 30 P., 746;
4 W., 518. Parker v. Esch, 31 P., 754. Thompson v. Huron Lum. Co., 32 
P., 536. Miller v. Wash. Sav. Bnk., 31 P., 712. Wheeler v. Lager, 3 W., 
733; 29 P., 453. · Kellog v. Bradley, 3 W., 429; 28 P., 367. Hanson v. Tomp­
kins, 2 W., 5o8; 27 P., 73. State v. Allyn, 2 W., 470; 27 P., 233. Ditten­
hoefer, v. Coeur d'Alene, 30 P., 66o; 4 W., 519. 
§ 714. Successor of trial judge may certify in case of removal,
death, etc.-Parties may agree. If the judge before whom the cause
was pending or tried shall from any cause have ceased to be such judge
he shall, notwithstanding, settle and certify, as the late judge, any bill of
exceptions or statement of facts that it would be proper for him to settle
and certify if he were still such judge, and such acts on his part shall have
the same effect as if he were still in office; and he may be compelled by
mandate so to do, as if still in office. If such judge shall die or remove
from the state, while in office or afterwards, within the time within which
a bill of exceptions or statement of facts, in a cause that was pending or
tried before him, might be settled and certified under the provisions of
this act, and before having certified such bill or statement, such bill or
statement may be settled by stipulation of the parties with the same effect
as if duly settled and certified by such judge while still in office. But if
the parties cannot agree, and if such judge, when removed from the
state, does not attend within the state and settle and certify a bill of
exceptions or statement of facts in case one has been duly proposed, his
successor in office shall settle and certify such bill or statement in the
manner in this act provided, and in so doing he shall be guided, so far as
practicable, by the minutes taken by his predecessor in office, or by the
stenographer, if one was in attendance on the court or judge, and may,
in order to determine any disputed matter not sufficiently appearing upon
such minutes, examine under oath the attorneys in the cause who were 
present at the trial or hearing, or any of them.-Laws of 1893, 117, § 12. 
Gordon v. Nelson, 30 P., 647; 4 W., 817. Gunderson v. Cochrane, 28 P., r rog ; 
3 w., 476. 
See section 716 under which these decisions were rendered. 
§ 715. [395.] If judge refuse to settle, supreme court may. If the
judge, in any case, refuse to allow an exception in accordance with the 
facts, the party desiring the bill settled may apply by petition to the
supreme court, to approve the same. The application may be made in the
mode and manner and under such regulations as the court may prescribe,
and the bill when proven, must be certified by a justice thereof as cor- 
rect, and filed with the clerk of the court in which the action was tried.
and when so filed it has the same force and effect as if settled by the 
judge who tried the cause.-Code of 1881, § 261. 
§ 716. [396.] If out of office, supreme court may settle. If the
judge who presided at the trial ceases to hold office before the bill is ten­
dered or settled, he may nevertheless settle such bill or the party may 
as provided in the preceding section, apply to the supreme court to prove
the same.-Code of 1881, § 262. 
~ 717. Served and fl.led within thirty days-Time extended­
Irregularities. A proposed bill of exceptions or statement of facts
must be filed and served either before or within thirty days after the time
begins to run within which an appeal may be taken from the final judg­ 
ment in the cause, or (as the case may be) from an order with a view to
an appeal from which the bill or statement is proposed: Provided, that
the time herein prescribed may be enlarged either before or after its ex­
piration, once or more, but not for more than sixty days additional in all,
by stipulation of the parties, or, for good cause shown and on such terms
as may be just, by an order of the court or judge wherein or before
whom the cause is pending or was tried, made on notice to the adverse
party. And the certifying of a bill of exceptions or statement of facts
provided for by this act, and the filing and service of the proposed bill or
statement, the notice of application for the settlement thereof, and all
other steps and proceedings leading up to the making of the certificate,
shall be deemed steps and proceedings in the cause itself, resting upon
the jurisdiction originally acquired by the court in the cause, and no
irregularity or failure to pursue the steps prescribed by this act on the part of any party, or the judge. shall affect the jurisdiction of the judge
to settle or certify a proper bill of exceptions or statement of facts. -Laws 
of 1893, p. I 16, § 13. . 
§ 718. Bill returned to party serving for preparation of brief. 
The copy of a proposed bill or statement which is served as in this act
prescribed, shall be returned to the party serving the same upon the bill
or statement being certified, if he has appealed to the supreme court, or
upon his thereafter appealing, for his use in preparing his brief on the
appeal, and the time limited by any law or role of court for the service
and filing of his brief shall be enlarged by any delay in returning such
copy as herein required to the extent of such delay; and when he serves
his brief he shall return such copy to the party on whom it was origi­
nally served, and his brief shall not be deemed served till such copy is so 
returned by him.-Laws of 1893, p. 117, § 14. 
§ 719. All written statements, verdicts, rulings, decisions, a part
of record. All reports of referees or commissioners, with the testimony
and other evidence returned into court therewith, all findings of fact and
conclusions of law made in writing by a judge, referee or commissioner 
and signed by him, all charges to a jury made wholly in writing, all in­
structions requested in writing to be given as part of a charge, all ver­
dicts, general or special, and all rulings and decisions embodied in a writ­
ten judgment, order or journal entry in the cause, together with all ex­
ceptions, if any, taken to any thereof, as well as all papers and matters
hitherto deemed a part of the record, shall be deemed and are hereby de­
clared to become, upon being filed in the cause, or, as the case may be,
embodied in a journal entry, a part of the record in the cause, for all the 
purposes thereof and of any appeal therein; and it shall not be necessary
or proper, for any purpose, to embody the same in any bill of exceptions 
or statement of facts.-Laws of 1893, p. 117, § 15.
Howard v. Ross, 3 W., 292; 28 P., 526. 
§ 720. Bills and statements in consolidated cases. When two or
more causes shall have been consolidated it shall not be necessary, for 
any purposes of an appeal which concerns only one or more, and not all
of the original causes, to embody in a bill of exceptions or statement of
facts any fact, matter or proceeding that relates solely to an original
cause with which the appeal is not concerned; and the bill or statement
shall be certified as in this act prescribed, notwithstanding the omission
therefrom of such facts, matters and proceedings.-Laws of 18931 p. 
118, § 16. 
§ 7 21. Provisions to govern all actions and proceedings. This act
shall apply to and govern all civil actions and proceedings, both legal
and equitable, and all criminal causes, in the superior courts, but shall
not apply to courts of justices of the peace or other inferior courts or tri­
bunals from which an appeal does not lie directly to the supreme court. 
-Laws of 1893, p. 118, § 17. 
§ 722. This act applies to cases now pending. This act shall gov­
ern proceedings had after it shall take effect, in actions then pending, as 
well as those in actions thereafter begun; but it shall not affect any right
acquired or proceeding had prior to the time when it shall take effect, nor
restore any right or enlarge any time then already lost or expired. And
except as above provided, all acts and parts of acts inconsistent with
the provisions of this act are hereby repealed.-Laws of 1893, p. 118, 
§ 18. 
§ 723. In what cases appeals allowed. Any party aggrieved may
appeal to the supreme court in the mode prescribed in this act from any 
or every of the following determinations, and no others, made by the
superior court, or a judge thereof, in any action or proceeding: 
1. From the final judgment entered in any action or proceeding, and
an appeal from any such final judgment shall also bring up for review
any order made in the same action or proceeding either before or after the
judgment, in case the record sent up on the appeal, or any supplement­
ary record sent up before the hearing thereof, shall show such order suffi­
ciently for the purposes of a review thereof. 
2. From any order refusing to vacate an order of arrest in a civil
action. 
3. From any order granting or denying a motion for a temporary
injunction, heard upon notice to the adverse party, and from any order
vacating or refusing to vacate a temporary injunction: Provided, That
no appeals shall be allowed from any order denying a motion for a tem­
porary injunction or vacating a temporary injunction, unless the judge
of the superior court shall have found, upon the hearing, that the party
against whom the injunction was sought was insolvent. 
4. From any order refusing to discharge an attachment.
5. From any order appointing or removing, or refusing to appoint or 
remove, a receiver.
6. From any order affecting a substantial right in a civil action or pro­ 
ceeding, which either, 
( 1.) In effect determines the action or proceeding· and prevents a final
judgment therein ; or 
(2.) Discontinues the action; or
(3.) Grants a new trial; or
(4.) Sets aside or refuses to affirm an award of arbitrators, or refers the 
cause back to them.
7. From any final order made after judgment, which affects a substan­ 
tial right ; and an appeal from any such order shall also bring up for re­ 
view any previous order in the same action or proceeding which involves 
the merits and necessarily affects the order appealed from, in case the
record sent upon the appeal, or any supplementary record sent up before
the bearing thereof, shall show such previous order sufficiently for the
purposes of a review thereof. But an appeal shall not be allowed to the
state in any criminal action, except when the error complained of is in
setting aside the indictment or information, or in arresting the judgment
on the ground that the facts stated in the indictment or information do
not constitute a crime, or is some other material error in law not affecting
theacquittal of a prisoner on the merits.-Laws of 1893, p. 119, § 1. 
See§ 1 and Const., Art. 4, § 4. Olsen v. Newton, 3 W., 429; 30 P., 450. Bums
v. Com. Bay Co., 30 P., 668-709; 4 W., 558. Meeker v. Sprague, 31, P., 628. 
Dexter Horton & Co., v. Schwabacher, 31 P., 755. Thompson v. Huron
Lumber Co .• 32 P., 536. State v. Lichtenberg, 30 P., 716; 4 W., 407. Travis
v. Ward, 2 W., 30; 25 P., go8. Tullis v. Shannon, 3 W., 716; 29 P., 449. 
State v. Kemp, 31 P., 7n. Tom the Cook v. Sayward, 31 P., 976. Bartlett
v. Reichennecker, 32 P., g6. State v. Fisher, 30 P., 502; 4 W., 382. Lilien­
thal v. Wright, 1 W., 1; 23 P. 801. Mahucke v. Tacoma, 1 W., 18; 23 P.,
8o4. Tripp v. Magnus, 1 W., 22; 23 P., 8o5. Johnstone v. Eisenbeis, 1 W., 
259; 24 P., 446. McElwain v. Huston, 1 W., 359; 25 P., 465. Wendt v.
Banniza, 2 W., 147; 26 P., 18g. Cline v. Harmon, 2 W., 155; 26 P., 191-26g. 
Sander-Bowman R. E. Co., v. Est. of Sarah B. Yesler, 2 W., 429; 27 P., 26g. 
Johnson v. Maxwell, 2 W., 482; 27 P., 1071. Bogle v. Co-operative Co., 3
W., 138; 28 P., 376. N. P. etc. Ry. Co. v. Black, 3 W., 327; 28 P., 538. 
Bleeker v. Satsop Ry. Co., 3 W., 77; 27 P., 1073. Liebman v. McGraw, 3 W., 
520; 28 P., rror. Myers v. Landrum, 4 W. 763; 31 P., 33. Meekerv. Gar­
della, 2 W. T., 355; 7 P. 88g. Puget Sd. ce., v. Pierce ce., 1 W. T., 76. 
Baker v. Prewett, 3 W. T., 474; 19 P., 149. Breemer v. Burgess 2 W. T., 290;
5 P., 733-840. Lytle v. Territory, 1 W. T., 435-444. Regan v. Territory, 1 
W. T., 31. People v. Hui Lee, 3 W. T., 3g6; 17 P., 884. 
§ 724. Title to remain unchanged. The party appealing shall be
known as the appellant, and the adverse party as the respondent, and
they shall be so designated in all papers in the cause after the notice of
appeal shall have been given or served; but the title of the cause shall
in other respects remain unchanged.-Laws of 1893, p. 120, § 2. 
§ 725. Six months within which to appeal. In civil actions and
proceedings an appeal from final judgment based on a verdict of a jury 
must be taken within six months after the date of the entry of such 
judgment; an appeal from any other final judgment within six months
after service of written notice of the entry thereof upon the party appeal­
ing or his attorney in the cause, but in no case more than one year after
the entry thereof; and an appeal from any order from which an appeal is
allowed by this 'act, within five days after the entry of the order if made
at the time of the hearing, and in all other cases within five days after the 
service of a copy of such order, with written notice of the entry thereof,
upon the party appealing or his attorney. In criminal causes an appeal
must be taken within one year after the entry of final judgment.-Laws 
of 1893, p. 120, §3.
Murphy v. Ross, 2 W., 327; 26 P., 222. Spokane Falls v. Browne, 3 W., 84; 27 
P., 1077. Leary v. Territory, 3 W. T., 13; 13 P., 665. Cogswell v. Hogan, 
23 P., 835; 1 W. 4, Stark v. Jenkins, 1 W. T., 421. 
§ 726. Notice of appeal-Bond. A party desiring to appeal to the
supreme court under the provisions of this act may, by himself or his at­
torney, give notice in open court or before the judge, if the judgment or
order appealed from is rendered or made at chambers, at the time when
such judgment or order is rendered or made, that he appeals from such
judgment or order to the supreme court, and thereupon the court or judge
shall direct the clerk to make an entry of such notice in the journal of
the court. If the appeal be not taken at the time when the judgment or
order appealed from is rendered or made, then the party desiring to ap­
peal may, by himself or his attorney, within the time prescribed in sec­
tion three [725] of this act, serve written notice on the prevailing party or
his attorney that he appeals from such judgment or order to the supreme
court, and within five days after the service of such notice he shall file
with the clerk of the superior court the original or a copy of such notice.
with proof [or] (of]the written admission of the service thereof and there­
upon the clerk shall enter such notice, with the proof or admission of
service thereof, in the journal of the court. The giving or service of a
notice of appeal as prescribed in this section shall effect the appeal, but
the same shall become ineffectual if an appeal bond for costs and dam­
ages be not given as required by section six (7 28] of this act. Two or
more appealable orders with or without the judgment may be embraced
in one appeal : Provided, The time allowed in this act for appealing from
each of such orders has not expired, The appellant in his notice of appeal
shall designate with reasonable certainty from what judgment or orders,
whether one or more, the appeal is taken, and if from part of any judg­ 
ment or order, from what particular part.-Laws of 1893, p. 120, § 4. 
Marsh v. Degeler 3 W., 71; 27 P., 1073. Town of Elma v, Carney, 4 W., 418;
30 P., 732. Myers v. Landrum, 4 W., 763; 31 P., 33. State v. Fisher, 4 W., 
382; 30 P., 502. Scott v. Burns, 3 W., 430; 30 P., 494. Jones v. Sander, 
2 W., 329; 26 P., 224. Cusick v. Beyers, 31 P., 422. Dahl v. Tibbals, 31 P,, 
868. Sadler v. Niesz, 31 P., 630. State ex rel. Ashmore v. Hunter, 30 P.,
673; 4 W., 637. McConnell v. Kaufman, 29 P., 1053; 4 W., 229. Ditten­ 
hoefer v. Creur d'Alene Co., 30 P., 66o; 4 W., 519. Lewis v. Gilbert, 32 P., 
459. Reichenbach v. Lewis, 32 P., 46o. 
§ 727. Who may join in appeal-Costs-Service. All parties whose
interests are similarly affected by any judgment or order appealed from 
may join in the notice of appeal whether it be given at the time when
such judgment or order is rendered or made, or subsequently; and any
such party who bas not joined in the notice may at any time within ten
days after the notice is given or served, serve an independent notice of
like appeal, or join in the appeal already taken by filing with the clerk of
the superior court a statement that he joins therein or in some part
thereof, specifying in what part. Any such party who does not so join
shall not derive any benefit from the appeal unless from · the necessity of
the case ; nor can he independently appeal from any judgment or order 
already appealed from, more than ten days after service upon him or writ­
ten notice of the former appeal, unless such former appeal be afterwards
dismissed. All parties who so join in an appeal after the notice is given
or served shall be liable for the expenses thereof, and for costs and dam­
ages to the same extent and upon the same conditions as if they had
originally joined in the notice. When the notice of appeal is not given
at the time when the judgment or order appealed from is rendered or
made, it shall be served in the manner required by law for the service of
papers in civil actions and proceedings, upon all parties who have ap­
peared in the action or proceeding : Prouided, That where the record and
files in the cause do not disclose the address of a party on whom service
should be made, or of his attorney, and neither such party nor bis attor­
ney can: be found within the county in which the judgment or order ap­
pealed from was rendered or made (of which fact a return by the sheriff
that they can not be so found shall be proof), the notice of appeal need
not be served on such party, but the appeal·may be taken by filing the
notice and such sheriff's return with the clerk. Service on an attorney
who was the attorney of record for a party in the cause at the time when
the judgment or order appealed from was tendered or made, shall be
deemed service on such party in all cases where service is required by this 
act.-Laws of 1893, p. 121, § 5. 
Bell. Bay National Bank v. Central Hotel Co., 30 P., 671; 4 W., 642. Myers v. 
Landrum, 31 P., 33; 4 W., 762. Doyle v. McLeod, 31 P., g6; 4 W., 732.
Cadwell v. First National Bank, 3 W., 188; 28 P., 365. 
§ 728. Appeal bond within flve days. An appeal in a civil action
or proceeding shall become ineffectual for any purpose unless at or before
the time when the notice of appeal is given or served, or within five days
thereafter, an appeal bond to the adverse party conditioned for the pay­
ment of costs and damages as prescribed in section ,even [729] of this ad,
be filed with the clerk of the superior court, or money in the sum of two
hundred dollars be deposited with the clerk in lieu thereof. But no bond
or deposit shall be required when the appeal is taken by the state, or by a
county, city, town or school district thereof, or by a defendant in a crim­
inal action.-Laws of 1893, p. 122, § 6. 
Runyan v. Russell, 3 W., 665; 29 P., 348. Hunt v. Seattle Con. St. R'y Co., 3
W., 787; 29 P., 763. Town of Elma, v. Camey, 30 P., 732; 4 W., 418. Wil­
son v. Morrell, 32 P., 733. 
§ 729. Conditions of bond-Sureties. The appeal bond must be
executed in behalf of the appellant by one or more sufficient sureties, and 
shall be in a penalty of not less than two hundred dollars in any case;
and in order to effect a stay of proceeding as in this section provided, the
bond, where the appeal is from a final judgment for the recovery of
money, shall be in a penalty double the amount of damages and costs
recovered in such judgment, and in other cases shall be in such penalty,
not less than two hundred dollars, and sufficient to save the respondent
harmless from damages by reason of the appeal, as a judge of the supe­
rior court shall prescribe. It shall be conditioned that the appellant will
pay all costs and damages that may be awarded against him on the appeal,
or on the dismissal thereof, not exceeding two hundred dollars. An appeal
shall not stay proceedings on the judgment or order appealed from or
on auy part thereof, unless the original or a subsequent appeal bond be
further conditioned that the appellant will satisfy and perform the judgment 
or order appealed from in case it shall be affirmed, and any judgment or
order which the supreme court may render or make, or order to be ren­
dered or made by the superior court, and ( where such condition is appli­
cable) shall pay all rents of or damages to property, accruing during the
pendency of the appeal, out of the possession of which any respondent
shall be kept by reason of the appeal. If the bond is intended to stay
proceedings on only a part of the judgment or order it shall be varied so
as to secure the part stayed alone. When such bond, further conditioned
as hereinabove prescribed, has been filed the appeal shall operate so long
as it shall remain effectual under the provisions of this act to stay pro­
ceedings upon the judgment or order appealed from; but in case of an
appeal from an order other than an order granting a new trial, no appeal
or appeal bond shall operate to stay proceedings in the cause except pro­
ceedings upon the order appealed from ; and no appeal or stay shall
vacate or affect any part of a judgment or order not appealed from and
where an appeal is taken from an order vacating a temporary injunction,
the appellant can not proceed further in the cause in the superior court
during the pendency of the appeal, except so far as may be rendered
necessary by proceedings of an adverseparty.-Laws of 1893, p. 122, § 7. 
State ex rel. Smith v. Sachs, 3 W., g6; 27 P., 1075. State ex rel. Benham v.
Armstrong, 31 P., 427. 
§ 730. Bond to keep injunction in force. In all cases where a final
judgment shall be rendered by any superior court of this state in a cause
wherein a temporary injunction has been granted, and the party at whose 
instance such injunction was granted shall appeal from such judgment,
such injunction shall remain in force during the pendency of such appeal,
if, within five days after service on him of notice of the entry of the final
judgment, such appellant shall file with the clerk of the superior court a
bond, with one or more sufficient sureties, in a penalty to be fixed by said
court, conditioned that the appellant shall pay to the respondent all costs
and damages that may be adjudged against the appellant on the appeal,
and all costs and damages that may accrue to the respondent by reason of
the injunction remaining in force.-Laws of 1893, p. 123, § 8. 
State ex rel. Miller v. Lichtenberg, 4 W., 407; 30 P., 716. 
§ 731. Same on appeal to U. S. supreme court. In all cases where
a final judgment shall be rendered by the supreme court of this state in a
cause wherein a temporary or final injunction has been granted and the 
party at whose instance such injunction was granted shall appeal from such
judgment to the supreme court of the United States, such injunction shall
remain in force during the pendency of such appeal, if, within sixty days
after the rendition of such judgment of the supreme court of this state,
such appellant shall file with the clerk of the supreme court a bond, with
one or more sufficient sureties, in a penalty to be fixed by said court, con­
ditioned that the appellant shall pay to the respondent all costs and dam­
ages that may be adjudged against the appellant on the appeal, and all
costs and damages that may accrue to the respondent by reason of the in­ 
junction remaining in force.-Laws ef 1893, p. 124, § 9. 
§ 732. Affidavit of sureties. An appeal bond, whether conditioned
so as to effect a stay of proceedings or not, shall be of no force unless 
accompanied by the affidavit <1f the surety or sureties therein attached
thereto, in which each. surety shall state that he is a resident of this state
and is worth a certain sum mentioned in such affidavit, over and above 
all debts and liabilities, in property within this state, exclusive of prop­
erty exempt from execution, and which sums so sworn to by the surety
or sureties, shall be at least equal to the penalty named in the bond if
there be but one surety, or shall amount in all to at least twice such
penalty if there be more than one surety.-Laws oJ 1893·, p. 124, § 10. 
§ 733. Exception to sureties-Justification-Judge's certiflcate­
New bond. Any respondent may except to the sufficiency of the surety
or sureties in an appeal bond, within ten days after the service on him of 
the notice of appeal or within five days after the service on him of the
bond or written notice of the filing thereof, by serving on the appellant a
notice stating that he so excepts, and specifying a place at the county
seat, and a time, not less than three nor more than ten days distant, at
which the surety or sureties are required to attend before the superior
court in which the judgment or order appealed from was rendered or
made, or before a judge thereof, and to justify their sufficiency as sure­
ties. At the time and place named in such notice, or to which the pro­
ceeding may be thence adjourned by the court or judge, the surety or
sureties must attend before the court or judge, and may be then and
there examined in detail, under oath, as to their property and other qual­
ifications as sureties, by any respondent or by the judge, or by both. If
the judge upon such examination is satisfied that the surety or sureties
are qualified as such, to the extent to which they are required by section
eight of this act to make affidavit, then he shall make a certificate to
that effect indorsed upon or attached to the bond, which shall thereupon
stand as a sufficient appeal bond to the effect expressed in the condition
thereof; but if he is not so satisfied, or if the sureties fail to attend and
justify, then the judge shall in like manner certify to that effect, and
thereupon the bond shall become void : Provided, That in such case the
appellant may, within five days after the making of such certificate, file
a new appeal bond, in conformity with the requirements of this act, and
subject to the requirement of justification of the sureties therein, as here­
inabove provided ; but in case such new appeal bond be found insuf­
ficient, no new bond can thereafter be filed in lieu thereof. In case the
original or new appeal bond be not conditioned so as to effect a stay of
proceedings, however, an additional appeal bond may be filed at any
time thereafter when the appellant desires to effect a stay as provided in
this act, during the pendency of the appeal. The examination of the
sureties taken upon their justification shall be reduced to writing and
subscribed by the sureties, if either party so requires, and attached to the
certificate made thereon.-Laws of 1893, p. 125, § 11. 
State v. Armstrong, 31, P., 427. 
§ 734. Stay of execution. When an appeal bond is conditioned so
as to effect a stay of proceedings, if execution has issued the clerk shall 
on demand of the appellant, issue to the sheriff a certificate that proceed­
ings have been stayed which shall countermand the execution ; and there­
upon the sheriff shall release any property levied on and not already sold,
and return the execution into court.-Laws of 1893, p. 126, § 12. 
State v. Sachs, 3 W., g6; 27 P., 1<>75. 
§ 735. Application for new bond. If any respondent shall have
cause to believe, after any appeal bond shall have been filed and the sure­ 
ties therein have justified or the time for requiring their justification has
expired that the sureties have since become disqualified as such, so that 
the bond is no longer an adequate security, he may apply by motion to
the supreme court to require a new or additional bond; and upon the
hearing of such motion the court may receive evidence in support of and 
· in opposition to the motion in such manner, and may make such order
thereon, as it shall deem proper.-Laws of 1893, p. 126, § 13. 
State ex rel. Schloss v. Super. Ct., 3 W., 696; 29, P. 202. 
§ 736. Clerk to transmit record-Contents of record. Within four
months after an appeal shall have been taken by notice as provided in this 
act, the clerk of the superior court shall prepare and certify and send up
to the supreme court, at the expense of the appellant (except in criminal
appeals prosecuted in forma pauperis, and in such cases at the expense of
the county), the original briefs on appeal filed and an original bill of ex­
ceptions or statement of facts, and a copy of so much of the record and
files as the appellant shall deem material to the review of the matters em­
braced within the appeal. The papers and copies so sent up, together
with any thereafter sent up as bereinbelow provided, shall constitute the
record on the appeal. Any bill of exceptions or statement of facts on file
when the record is so sent up shall be sent up as a part thereof, unless the
superior court or a judge thereof has not yet passed on an application for
the settlement and certifying of such bill or statement. In case any bill
of exceptions or statement of facts shall be filed or certified, or any other
addition to the record or files shall be made after the record on appeal
shall have been sent up, a supplementary record on appeal embracing so
much thereof as the appellant deems material or (as may be proper) a
copy thereof may be prepared, certified and sent up at any time prior to
the hearing of the appeal. And in case the respondent deems any part of
the files or record not already sent up to be material to the review of the
matters embraced within the appeal, be may cause the clerk, in like man­
ner, at his expense, to prepare, certify and send up a supplementary
record on appeal embracing such omitted files or records, or (as may be
proper) copies thereof, at any time prior to the bearing of the appeal.
Any such supplementary record or records, if filed in the supreme court
prior to the bearing of the appeal, shall be considered by ):he court as part
of the record on appeal, so far as the same may be material to a review of
the matters embraced within the appeal. When the review of an original
paper in the cause may be important to a correct decision of the appeal,
the court or judge may order the clerk to transmit the same to the clerk
of the supreme court and the same shall be transmitted accordingly, and
shall be under the control of the supreme court.-Laws of 1893, p. 1261 § 14. 
Howard v. Ross, 3 W., 292; 28 P., 526. Link v. Bosse, 31 P., 599. Town of
Elma v. Carney, 4 W., 419; 30 P., 732. Callahan v. Houghton, 2 W., 539;
27 P., 175. Wilson v. Morrill, 32 P., 733. Exparte Parker, 120 U. S., 737.
Carson v. Chandler, 3 W. T., 66; 13 P,, 618; 14 P., 592. State v. Carey, 30
P., 730; 4 W., 424. State v. Hinckey, 31 P., 870. State v. Hoyt, 30 P., 
106o; 4 W., 818. Stenger v. Roeder, 29 P., 2II; 3 W., 412, McReavy v.
Eshelman, 4 W., 757; 31 P., 35. Leonard v. Territory, 2 W. T., 381; 7 P., 
872. Yelm Jim v. Territory, I W. T., 63. Coleman v. Yesler, 1 W. T., 591.
Parker v. Denny, 2 \V. T., 36o; 2 P., 351. 
§ 737. Time for serving and fl.ling briefs. Within ninety days after
an appeal shall have been taken by notice as provided in this act, the ap­ 
pellant shall serve on the respondent three copies and shall file with the
clerk of the superior .court fifteen copies, together with proof or written
admission of· service, as aforesaid, of a printed brief on the appeal 
upon his part, which brief shall clearly point out each error that the ap­
pellant relies. on for a reversal, and shall conform to such regulations
of its contents in other respects, and its form and size as the supreme
court by its rules may have prescribed. Within thirty days after the
service of the appellant's brief, the respondent shall likewise serve and
file with the clerk of the superior court, with like proof of service, the
like numbers of copies of a printed brief on the appeal upon his part,
which shall likewise conform to the rules of the supreme court. The
time for service and filing of briefs, as in this section prescribed, may
be extended by order of the superior court for good cause shown, or by
stipulation of the parties concerned; and if the time for filing any state­
ment of facts shall be extended by order or stipulation, the time herein
prescribed for serving and filing the appellant's brief shall thereby be cor­
respondingly extended. The appellant may also serve and file in the
supreme court at any time before the hearing of the appeal shall begin
like numbers of a further printed brief or briefs strictly in reply to the
respondent's brief, and either party may, after the filing of his briefs and
not less than one day prior to the hearing of the appeal, submit to the
supreme court and to the adverse party a written or printed statement
of any additional authorities, with suitable comment thereon strictly in
support of the positions taken in his brief bereinabove required to be filed.
But the appellant shall not be permitted to urge in any such reply brief or
statement of additional authorities, or on the hearing, any grounds for
reversal not clearly pointed out in his original brief.-Laws of 1893, p. 
127, § 15. 
· § 738. Notice of appeal gives jurisdiction. Upon the taking
of an appeal by notice as provided in this act, and the filing of a bond to
render the appeal effectual, the supreme court shall acquire jurisdiction
of the appeal for all necessary purposes, and shall have control of the
superior court and of all inferior officers in all matters pertaining thereto,
and may enforce such control by a mandate or otherwise, and, if neces­
sary, by fine and imprisonment, which imprisonment may be continued
until obedience shall be rendered to the mandate of the supreme court.
But the superior court shall nevertheless retain jurisdiction for the pur­
pose of all proceedings by this act provided to ,be had in such court, and
for the purpose of settlement and certifying of bills of exceptions and
statements of facts, and for all purposes in so far as the cause is not
affected by the appeal.-Laws of 1893, p. 128, § 16. 
§ 739. Cases placed on calendar. All appeals, in which the
record shall have [been] filed in the supreme court at least ten days be­
fore the beginning of any stated session of the court, shall be placed on 
the calendar of the court for hearing at such session: and the subsequent
filing of a supplementary record shall not affect the position of the ap­
peal on the calendar. But the bearing of an appeal may at any time be
postponed by the court or continued for the session, of its own motion or
for good cause shown, and on such terms as may be just. -Laws of 
1893, p. 128, § 17. 
§ 740. Motion to dismiss or affirm. Any respondent may move the
supreme court, at such time and in such manner as the court by its rules · 
may have prescribed, to dismiss an appeal either on the ground that the
court has no jurisdiction of an appeal from the judgment or order from
which the appeal was taken, or that the notice of appeal was not served 
or filed within the time limited by law, or is insufficient, or that the
appeal bond was not filed within the time limited by law, or is not in
form or substance such as to render the appeal effectual, or that the
appellant's brief has not been served or filed, or that the record on appeal
has not been sent up, or that the appeal has not been diligently prose­
cuted or on any ground going to the merits of the further prosecution of
the appeal, or on any two or more of the grounds hereinabove mentioned ;
and there may be combined with a motion to dismiss a motion to affirm
the judgment or order appealed from,. or a motion for damages on the
ground that the appeal was taken merely for delay, or was manifestly
unauthorized by law, or both such motions. A general appearance in
the supreme court shall not be a waiver of the right to make any motion
herein authorized.-Laws of 1893, p. 129, § 18. 
Tom the Cook v. Sayward, 31 P., 976. Chehalis F. & A. Co. v. Reinhart, 3 W.,
428; 28 P., 256. Olsen v. Newton, 3 W., 429; 30 P., 450. Scott v. Bums,
3 W., 430; 30 P., 494. S. & M. R'y Co. v. Joergenson, 3 W., 622; 29 P., 
88. Lacy v. N. Olympia Land Co., 29 P., 929; 4 W., 261. Dittenhoefer v. 
Coeur d'Alene Co., 30 P. 66o; 4 W., 519. Sehorn v. Price, 30 P., 86; 4 W.,
262. State v. Humason, 30 P., 718; 4 W., 413. Freeburger v. Gazzam JI 
P., 319. Smith v. Arthur, 31 P., 757. Lewis v. Host, 2 W. T., 402; 7 P.,
858. Fountain v. Leckie, 3 W. T., 407; 17 P., 883. Oregon, etc., Co. v.
O'Brien, 3 W. T., 21; 13 P., 757. Roberts v. Tucker, 1 W. T., 179. Swift v.
Stine, 3. W. T., 518-18; 19 P., 63; 13 P .. 904. Kenyon v. Knipe, 3 W. T., 
243; 13 P., 759. Lyons v. Bain, I W. T., 482. 
§ 7 41. Decision on motions-Costs-Amendments allowed. If the
supreme court, on the hearing of any motion or motions, shall find the
grounds, or any thereof, alleged for the same to be well taken and true in 
fact, the court may grant the same, in whole or in part ; but when any
such motion does not go to the substance of the appeal or to the right of
the appeal, and the court shall be of the opinion that the moving party
can be compensated in costs or by the imposition of other terms for any
delay of the appellant which is made the ground of any such motion
(except a failure to take the appeal within the time limited by law),
the court in its discretion may deny the motion, on such terms as may be
just. The court shall, upon like terms, allow all amendments in matters
of form curative of defects in appellate proceedings, to the end that sub­
stantial justice be secured to the parties; and no appeal shall be dis­
missed for any informality or defect in the notice of appeal or the ser­
vice thereof, if from the notice or other parts of the record on appeal it
appears that the adverse party has had sufficient notice of the appeal,
describing the judgment or order appealed from with such certainty that
his substantial right would not be prejudiced by the hearing of the 
appeal.-Laws of 1893, p. 129, § 19.
Norager v. Norwald, 3 W. T., 246; 14 P. 593. 
§ 742. Withdrawal and second appeal. No withdrawal of an ap­
peal, and no dismissal which does not go to the substance of or the right
to the appeal, shall preclude any party from taking another appeal in the 
same cause, within the time limited by law.-Laws of.18931 p. 130, § 20.
Spokane Falls v. Browne, 3 W., 84; 27 P., 1077. 
§ 743. Intermediate and other proceedings may be reviewed. 
Upon an appeal from a judgment, the supreme court may review any in­
termediate order or determination of the court below which involves the 
merits and materially affects the judgment, appearing upon the record
sent up from the superior court. Any questions of fact or of law,-de­
cided upon trials by the court or by referees, in either legal or equitable
causes, may be reviewed, when exceptions to the findings of fact or to
the conclusions of law, or both, have been duly taken, by either party
and sent up in the record on appeal; and in actions legal or equitable,
tried by the court below without a jury, wherein a statement of facts or
bill of exceptions shall have been certified, the evidence [ of] [or] facts
shown by such bill of exceptions or statement of facts shall be examined
by the supreme court de nouo, so far as the findings of fact or a refusal to
make findings based thereon shall have been excepted to, and the cause
shall be determined by the record on appeal, including such (exceptions] 
[bill] or statement.-Laws of 1893, p. 130, § 21_. . ·
Freaney v. Territory, 1 W. T., 71. 
§ 744. Supreme court may reverse, affirm~ or modify. Upon an
appeal from a judgment or order, or from two or more orders with or 
without the judgment, the supreme court may affirm, reverse or modify
any such judgment or order appealed from, as to any or all of the parties,
and may direct the proper judgment or order to be entered, or direct a
new trial or further proceedings to be had ; and, if the appeal is from a part of a judgment or order, may affirm, reverse or modify as to the part
appealed from. The decision of the court shall be given in writing, and
no cause shall be deemed decided until the decision in writing is filed
with the clerk. In giving its decision, if a new trial is granted, the
court shall pass upon and determine all the questions of law involved in
the cause presented upon such appeal and necessary· to the final determin­
ation of the cause.-Laws of 1893, p. 130, § 22. 
Cunningham v. Seattle Electric Ry. Co., 3 W., 471; 28 P., 745. Cogswell v. W.
St. & N. E. Elect. Ry. Co., 31 P., 411. Ledyard v. Same, 31 P., 417. Wag­
ner v. Law, 29 P., 927; 3 W., 500. State v. Friedrick 29 P., I055; 4 W., 204.
CityofTacomav. Dougan, 31 P., 325; 4 W., 796. Tacoma Lum. Co. v. Wollf, 
32 P., 462. Ankeny v. Clark, 20 P., 583; I W., 549. Willy v. Morrow, 1 W.
T., 474. Parker v. Denny, 21 P., 386; 3 W. T., 598. Baker v. McAlllster, 2 W.
T., 48; 3 P., 581. Bullene v. Garrison I W. T., 587. Williams v. Miller, 1 
W. T., 88. White v. Territory, 24 P., 447i I W., 279. · N. P. Ry. Co. v.
O'Brien, 21 P., 32; 1 W., 599. Timmerman v. Territory, 3 W. T., 445; 17 P.,
624. 
§ 745. Damages for dilatory appeals. Upon the affirmance of any
judgment or order for the payment of money, the collection of which, in 
whole or in part, has been stayed by an appeal bond, as in this act pro­
vided, the court may award to the respondent damages upon the amount
superseded ; and, if satisfied by the record that the appeal was taken for
delay only, the court must so award such damages not exceeding fifteen
per cent. of the sum by such judgment or order recovered or directed to
be paid, as will effectually tend to prevent the taking of appeals for delay
only.-Laws of 1893, p. 131, § 23. 
Seattle v. Montana Ry. Co. v. Joergensen, 3. W., 622; 29 P., 88. Walter v.
Maresch, 3 W., 624; 29 P., 205. Brown v. Pepin, I W. T., 205. 
§ 746. Judgment against sureties on appeal boncl. Upon the
aflirmance of a judgment or [on] appeal for the payment of money, the
supreme court shall render judgment against both the appellant and his 
sureties in the appeal bond for the amount of the j udgment appealed 
from (in case the bond was conditioned so as to support such judgment)
and for the damages and costs awarded on the appeal ; and in any other
case of affirmance the supreme court shall likewise render judgment
against both the appellant and his sureties in the appeal bond for the
amount recoverable according to the condition of the bond, in case such
amount can be.ascertained by the court without an issue and trial.-Laws 
of 1893, p. 131, § 24.
Sullivan v. Skagit Co., 2 W., 681; 28 P., 1039. Tinkham v. Kimble, 2 W., 682; 
28 P., 1038. · Chehalis F. & A. Co. v. Reinhart, 3 w;, 428; 28 P., 256. Tom
Cook v. Sayward, 31 P., 976. O'Hare v. Wilson, 3 W. T., 25·1; 14 P., 595. 
§ 747 .. Remittitur within thirty days unless petition for rehearing. 
If a petition for rehearing [or] [of] an appeal be filed within thirty days after
the filing of the decision of the supreme court, the remittitur upon the ap­
peal shall not be sent down to the lower court till such petition shall have
been acted upon by the supreme court. But at the expiration of thirty
days after the filing of the decision of any cause on appeal in case nope­
tition for re-hearing shall be filed, or in case such a petition is filed and
is denied by the court, then forthwith upon such denial the clerk of the
supreme court shall send down to the superior court from which the
appeal was taken a remittitur in the cause, which shall consist of the
judgment of the supreme court, and a certified copy of the opinion of the
court in case any judgment or order appealed from was reversed or mod­ 
ified thereby.-Laws of 1893, p. 131, § 25. 
Thompson v. Huron Lumber Co., 31 P., 25; 4 W., 6oo. 
Note: There appear to be no provisions in the act of 1893 corresponding to the
two following sections from the law of 1891. 
[ 1438. l If a petition for rehearing be filed, the same shall suspend the decisions of
the court, on its presentation, until the application shall be determined.-Laws of 
1891, p. 350, § 36.
[1439.) The petition for rehearing shall be the argument of the applicant therefor; 
and if the court think that such argument requires a reply, it shall so indicate to the
other party, and he may make reply within such time as said court shall allow.­
Laws of 1891, p. 350, § 37. 
§ 748. Execution may issue from supreme or superior courts. If
the supreme court affirm or modify any judgment or order appealed from,
it may remand the cause to the court below with directions to carry the 
same into effect, or it may itself issue the necessary process for that pur­
pose to the sheriff of the proper county, as it may deem advisable. If
the cause is remanded to the court below to have such judgment or order
carried into effect, the decision of the supreme court, and its order entered
thereon, upon being certified to the court below and entered on its
records, shall have the same force and effect therein as if made and en­
tered by the court below during its session. Executions .issued from the
supreme court shall be similar to those from the superior court, and
of like force and effect, and returnable in the same time.-Laws of 1893, 
p. 131, § 26.
Waterman v. Lemon, 3 W. T., 15; 13 P., 905. 
§ 749. Restitution on reversal of judgment. If by a decision of
the supreme court the appellant becomes entitled to a restoration of any part of the money or property that was taken from him by means of the
judgment or order appealed from, either the supreme court or the court 
below may direct an execution or writ of restitution to issue for the pur­
pose of restoring to the appellant his property, or the value thereof. But
property acquired by a purchaser in good faith, under a judgment subse­
quently reversed, shall not be affected by such reversal.-Laws of 1893, 
p. 132, § 27. 
§ 750. Death not to affect appeals. The death of a party after the
rendition of a final judgment in the superior court shall not affect any 
appeal taken, or the right to take an appeal; but the proper representa­ 
tives in personalty or realty of the deceased party, according to the nature
of the case, may voluntarily come in and be admitted parties to the
cause, or may be made parties at the instance of another party, as may be
proper, as in case of death of a party pending an action in the superior
court, and thereupon the appeal may proceed or be taken as in other
cases ; and the time necessary to enable such representatives to be ad­
mitted or brought in as parties shall not be computed as part of the time
in this act limited for taking an appeal, or for taking any step in the 
progress thereof.-Laws of 1893, p. 132, § 28. 
§ 751. Pees in supreme court. Costs shall be allowed in the supreme
court, irrespective 'of any costs taxed in the case in the court below, to 
the prevailing party in the supreme court, on any appeal in any civil ac­
tion or proceeding as follows : . 
The fees of the clerk of the supreme court paid by the prevailing party,
the fees of the clerk of the court below for preparing, certifying and send­
ing up the records on appeal or any supplementary record, paid by the
prevailing party, and twenty-five dollars attorneys' fees, besides his neces­
sary disbursements for the printing of briefs, and any sum actually paid
or incurred by the prevailing party as stenographer's fees, not exceeding
ten cents a folio, for making a transcript of the evidence or any part
thereof included in the bill of exceptions or statement of facts ; but
when the judgment of the court below shall be affirmed in part and re­
versed in part, or affirmed as to some of the parties and reversed as to
others, or modified, the costs shall be in the discretion of the court, and
when the judgment is reversed and a new trial ordered, the court may
in its discretion direct that costs of the prevailing party shall abide the
result of the action. When in the opinion of the supreme court a brief
of the prevailing party shall be unnecessarily long, or improper in sub­
stance, the court may in its discretion order the disallowance as costs of
any part or the whole of the disbursements for printing the same.-Laws 
of 1893, p. 132, § 29. 
§ 752. Appeal in criminal action stays execution. An appeal by a
defendant in a criminal action shall stay the execution of the judgment
of conviction. In case the defendant has been convicted of a felony, and 
bas been unable to furnish the bail bond required by section thirty-one
[7 53] of this act, pending the appeal, the time during which he remains in
the jail of the county from which the appeal is taken shall be deducted
from the term for which he was theretofore sentenced to the penitentiary,
if judgment against him be affirmed.-Laws of 1893, p. 133, § 30. 
Ex parte C. S. Jones, 2 W., 551; 27 P., 172. 
§ 753. Judge of lower court to flx amount of bail pending appeal. 
In all criminal actions, except capital cases in which the proof of guilt is
clear or the presumption great, upon an appeal being taken from a judg­
ment of conviction, the court in which the judgment was rendered, or a 
judge thereof, must, by an order entered in the journal or filed with the
clerk, fix and determine the amount of bail to be required of the appel­
lant ; and the appellant shall be committed until a bond to the state of
Washington in the sum so fixed be executed on his behalf by at least two 
sureties possessing the qualifications required for sureties on appeal bonds
by section ten [732] of this act, such bond to be conditioned that the ap­
pellant shall appear whenever required, and stand to and abide by the
judgment or orders of the appellate court, and any judgment and order
of the superior court that may be rendered or made in pursuance thereof.
If the appellant be already at large on bail, bis sureties shall be liable to
the amount of their bond, in the same manner and upon the same condi­
tions as if they had executed the bond prescribed by this section; but
the court may by order require a new bond in a larger amount or with
new sureties, and may commit the appellant until the order be complied 
with.-Laws of 1893, p. 133, § 31.
~ 754. Personal appearance of party unnecessary-Defendant entitled to close. Personal appearance of any party in the supreme court
shall not be necessary on appeal in either civil or criminal actions. In
criminal actions the defendant shall be entitled to close the argument.­ 
Laws of 1893, p. 134, § 32.
§ 755. Reversal ot judgment in criminal cases. When in a crimi­ 
nal action the judgment against the defendant is reversed and it appears
that no offense whatever has been committed, the supreme court must di­
rect that the defendant be discharged ; but if it appear that the defend­
ant is guilty of an offense, although defectively charged in the indict­
ment or information, the supreme court, if the defendant is in prison,
must direct the keeper of the place of confinement to cause the prisoner
to be returned to the sheriff of the proper county, there to abide the
order of the superior court thereof; and such keeper shall be entitled to 
the usual fees therefor.-Laws o/ 1893, p. 134, § 33.
§ 756. Period of imprisonment to be deducted. If a defendant 
who has been in prison during the pendency of an appeal, upon a new
trial ordered by the supreme court, shall be again convicted, the period
of his former imprisonment shall be deducted by the superior court from
the period of imprisonment to be fixed on the last verdict of conviction. 
-Laws OJ 1893, p. 134, 34·
§ 757. Certified copy of order or judgment is authority. A tran­ 
script of any order or judgment, or both, of the supreme court, certified
under the seal of the court, shall be sufficient authority to any court, or
to any officer on whom it may be served, to proceed according to its man­ 
date.-Laws of 1893, p 134, § 35· 
Waterman v. Lemon, 3 W. T., 15; 13 P., 905. 
§ 758. Technicalities to be disregarded-Amendments. The
supreme court shall hear and determine all causes retgoved thereto, in
the manner hereinbefore provided, upon the merits thereof, disregarding 
all technicalities, and shall upon the hearing, consider all amendments
which could have been made as made.-Laws of 1893, p. 1s4, § 36. 
§ 7 59. Court to make rules and regulations. The supreme court is
hereby authorized to make all needful rules and regulations not incon­ 
sistent with law concerning practice and procedure in cases appealed to
the supreme court.-Laws of 1893, p. 135, § 37. 
Callahan v. Houghton, 2 W., 539; 27 P., 175. Turner v. Saxon, 3 W. T., 473;
18 P., 67. Breemer v. Burgess, 2 W. T., 290; 5 P., 733. Carroll v. Ander­
son, 2 W. T., 366; 7 P., Sgo. Dodd v. Bowles, 3 W.1'., II; 13 P., 681. Levy 
v: Sheehan, 23 P., 8o2; 1 W., 149.
Note: The following section from the law of 18g1 regarding service of papers is 
here inserted, as its provisions may still· be in force, except as to service of
notices of appeal, which is governed by section five [727] of the act of 18g3. 
[1441.) The service of notices of appeal, and of all notices and orders and process
connected with appeals, or with proceedings on appeal, shall, except as otherwise
directed by the supreme court by general rule or special order, be made in the way
provided for the services of like notices in the superior court, and they may be
served by the same person and returned in the same manner. The original notice of
appeal must be returned immediately after service to the office of the clerk of the
superior court from which the appeal is taken.-Laws of 18g1, p. 350, ~ 39. 
§ 760. Proceedings to be conclusive. · The mode provided by this
act for appealing cases to the supreme court, and for securing a revision
of the same therein, shall be conclusive and shall supersede all other
methods heretofore provided. But no rights acquired under statutes
which are abrogated by this act shall be lost by reason of the passage of
this act, and all appeals pending when this act takes effect may be prose­
cuted to their determination 8.5 if this act had not been passed.-,Laws of 
1893, p. 135, § 38. 
, § 761. Repealing clause. Except as otherwise provided in section
thirty-eight L76o] of this act, all acts and parts of acts inconsistent with
the provisions of this act are hereby repealed.-Lawsof 1893, p. 135, § 39. 
§ 762. (1645.] Who may be a witness. Every person of sound
mind, suitable age and discretion, except as hereinafter provided, may 
be a witness in any action or proceeding.-Code of 1881, § ·388. 
§ 763. (1646.] Interest in action does not disqualify. No person
offered as a witness shall be excluded from giving evidence by reason of 
his interest in the event of the action, as a party thereto or otherwise,
but such interest may be shown to affect his credibility: Provided, lu,w­ 
ever, that in an action or proceeding where the adverse party sues or
defends as executor, administrator or legal representative of any deceased
person, or as deriving right or title by, through or from any deceased
person, or as the guardian or conservator of the estate of any insane per­
son, or of any minor under the age of fourteen (14) years, then a party in
interest or to the record, shall not be admitted to testify in his own behalf
as to any transaction had by him with, or any statement made to him by
any such deceased or insane person, or by any such minor under the age
of fourteen (14) years: Provided further, that this exclusion shall not
apply to parties of record who sue and defend in a representa­
tive and fiduciary capacity, and· who have no other or further interest in 
the action . ....:...Laws of 1889-90, p. 91, § 1. 
§ 764. (1647.] Conviction of crime as affecting witnesses' credibil­
ity. No person offered as a witness shall be excluded from giving evi­
dence by reason of conviction of crime, but such conviction may be
shown to affect his credibility : Provided, that any person who shall have 
been convicted of the crime of perjury shall not be a competent witness in
any case, unless such conviction shall have been reversed, or unless he shall
have received a pardon.-Laws of 1891, p. 33, § 1. 
§ 765. [1648.] W)lo are incompetent as witnesses. The following
persons shall not be competent to testify: 
1.. Those who are of unsound mind, or intoxicated at the time of their
production for examination, and 
2. Children under ten years of age who appear incapable of receiving
just impressions of the facts, respecting which they are examined, or of
relating them truly.-Code of 1881, § 391. 
§ 766. [1649.] Persons who shall not testify. The following persons
shall not be examined as witnesses : 
1. A husband shall not be examined for or against his wife without the
consent of bis wife, nor a wife for or against her husband without the con­
sent of the husband, nor shall either, during marriage, or afterwards, with­
out the consent of the other, be examined as to any communication made
by one to the other during marriage ; but this exception shall not apply
to a civil action or proceeding by one against the other, nor to a criminal
action or proceeding for a crime committed by one against the other :
Provided, That in all actions, civil and criminal, involving the chastity of
the wife, in which the husband is a competent witness, the wife shall also
be a competent witness and allowed to testify. -Laws of 1885-6, p. 73, § 1. 
2. An attorney or counselor shall not, without the consent of his client,
be examined as to any communication made by the client to him, or his
advice given thereon in the course of professional employment. 
3. A clergyman or priest shall not, without the consent of the person
making the confession, be examined as to any confession made to him in 
• his professional character, in the course of discipline enjoined by the
church to which he belongs. 
4. A regular physician or surgeon shall not, without the consent of his
patient, be examined in a civil action as to any information acquired in
attending such patient, which was necessary to enable him to prescribe or
act for the patient. · 
5. A public officer shall not be examined as a witness as to communi­
cations made to him in official confidence, when the public interest would
suffer by the disclosure.-Code of 1881, § 392. 
Columbia and Puget Sound R.R. Co. v. Hawthorn, 3 W. T., 353. 
WITNRSSES AND COMPELLING THIUR ATTENDANCE. 
I 767. Witnesses within twenty miles com-
pelled to attend-Fees in advance. 
I 768. Subpa:na duces ucu,n. 
i 769. l•uing of aubpa:na. 
f 770. Serving subpa:na-Proof of service. 
CHAPTER LXII. 
i 771. Penons present must testify 88 if sub­
pcenaed, 
i 772. Witness liable to party for failure to at­
tend--Contem pt. 
i 773. Attachment to bring in witne~. 
i 774. Attachment directed to sheriff' and exe­
cuted 88 warrant. 
i 775. Testimony of convict witnesses. 
I 776. Affidavit required to obtain convict'•
testimony. 
~ 767. [1650.] WitneBBes within twenty miles compelled to attend
-Pees in advance. No person shall be obliged to attend as a witness
before any court of record, judge, justice of the peace, commissioner, 
referee, or other officer, in any civil action or proceeding out of the coun­
ty in which he resides, unless his residence be within twenty miles of
such court, judge, justice of the peace, commissioner, referee, or other 
officer ; and no person shall be obliged to attend as a witness in any civil
action or proceeding in a justice's court, unless his residence. be within
twenty miles of such court, whether within the county or not. Nor
shall any person be compelled to attend as a witness in any civil action or
proceeding, unless the fees be paid or tendered him which are allowed
by law for one day's attendance as a witness and for traveling to and re­
turning from the place where he is required to attend: Provided, such
fees be demanded by him at the time of service of the subprena.-Laws 
of 1891, p. 33, § 2. 
State v. Trounce, 32 P,, 750. 
§ 768. [1651.] Subpmna duces tecum. The subpoena may require
not only the personal attendance of the person to whom it is directed, at 
a particular time and place, to .. testify as a witness, but may also require
him to bring with him any books, documents or things under his control ;
but no public officer or person having the possession or control of public
records or papers which by law are required to be kept in any particular
office or place shall be compelled to produce the same in any court.-Code 
of 1881, ~ .194·
§ 769. [1652.] Issuing of subpmna. The subpeena shall be issued as 
fo~~= c 
1. To require attendance before a court of record, or at the trial of an
issue therein; it shall be issued in the name of the United States, and be
under the seal of the court before which the attendance is required, or in
which the issue is pending. 
2. To require attendance out of such a court before a judge, justice of.
the peace, commissioner, referee or other officer authorized to administer
oaths or to taketestimony in any matter under the laws of this territory;
it shall be issued by such judge, justice of the peace, commissioner,
referee or other officer before whom the attendance is required. 
3. To require attendance before a commissioner appointed to take testi­
mony by a court of any other state, territory or [county] [count,y], it may
be issued by any judge or justice of the peace, in places within their
respective jurisdictions.--Code of 1881, § 395. 
§ 770. (1653.] Serving subpmna-Proof ofservice. Such subpcena
may be served by any suitable person over eighteen years of age,. by ex­
hibiting and reading it to the witness, or by giving him a copy thereof, 
. or by leaving such copy at the place of his abode. When service is
made by any other person than an officer authorized to serve process, 
proof of service shall be made by aftidavit.-Code of 1881, § 396.
§ 771. [1654.] Persons present must testify as if subpcenaed. A 
person present in court, or before a judicial officer, may be required to
testify in the same manner as if he were in attendance upon a subpoena
issued by such court or officer.-Code of 1881, § 397. 
§ 772. [1655.] Witness liable to party for failure to attend-Con­
tempt. If any person duly served with a subpoena, and obliged to at­ 
tend as a witness, shall fail to do so, without any reasonable excuse, he
shall be liable to the aggrieved party for all damages occasioned by such
failure, to be recovered in a civil action. Such failure to attend as re­
quired by the subpcena, shall also be considered a contempt, and upon
due proof, the witness may be punished by a fine not exceeding fifty dol­
lars, and stand committed until said fine and costs are paid or until dis­ 
charged by due course of law.-Code of 1881, §§ 398, 399. 
§ 773. [1656.] Attachment to bring in witnesses. The court
judge, justice of the peace or other officer, in such case, may issue an at~ 
tachment to bring such witness before them to answer for contempt, and
also testify as witness in the cause in which he was subprenaed.-Code of 
1881, § 400. 
§ 774. [1657.] Attachment directed to sheriff and executed as
warrant. · Such attachment may be directed to the sheriff or any con­ 
stable of any county in which the witness may be found, and shall be
executed in the same manner as a warrant ; and the fees of the officer for
issuing and serving the same shall be paid by the person against whom
the same was issued, unless he shows reasonable cause, to the satisfaction
of the justice, for his omission to attend; in which case the party re­
quiring such attachment shall pay all such costs.-Laws of 1891, p. 
33, § 3. 
§ 775. [1658.] Testimony of convict witneBB. If the witness be a
prisoner confined in a jail or prison within this territory, an order for his 
examination in prison, upon deposition, qr for his temporary removal and
production before a court or officer, for the purpose of being orally exam­
ined, may be issued.-Cade of 1881, § 401. 
§ 776. [1659.] Affidavit required to obtain convict's testimony. 
Such order can only be made upon affidavit, showing the nature of the
action or proceeding, the testimony expected from the witness, and its
materiality.-Code of 1881, § 402. 
Im,
I ,.,s. 
I 779. 
CHAPTER LXIII. 
EXAMINATION OF PARTIItS. 
I 1So.
Party to action may be examined as
witness. 
Interrogatories to obtain testilnony of
adverse party. ' 
Answers to interrogatories muat be
filed. 
Adverse party may be examined not
withstanding interrogatories. 
Party's testimony not conclusive.
If party refuse to testify, bis pleading 
§ 777. [ 166o.] Party to action may be examined as witness. A
party to an action or proceeding may be examined as a witness, at the in­
stance of the adverse party, or of one of several adverse parties, and for 
that purpose may be compelled in the same manner, and subject to the
same rules of examination as any other witness to testify at the trial, or
he may be examined on a commission.-Code of 1881, § 403. 
§ 778. [1661.] Interrogatones to obtain testimony of adverse
party. Instead of the examination being had at the trial, as provided
by the last section, the plaintiff, at the time of filing his complaint or 
afterwards, and the defendant, at the time of filing his answer or after­
wards, may file in the clerk's office interrogatories for the discovery of
facts and documents material to the support or defense of the action, to
be answered on oath by the adverse party.-Code of 1881, § 404. 
§ 779. [1662.] Answers to interrogatortes)nust be flied. Such in­
terrogatories shall be answered, and such answers filed in the clerk's 
office, within twenty days after the same are served on the party interro­
gated, unless for cause shown a further time be allowed by the court or 
judge thereof.-Code of 1881, § 405. . 
may be stricken and judgment taken
against him. 
§ 780. (1663.] Advene party may be examined notwithstanding
interrogatories. A party to an action or proceeding having filed inter­
rogatories to be answered by the adverse party, as prescribed by the last 
two sections, shall not thereby be precluded from examining such adverse
party as a witness at the trial, nor from taking his deposition to be read 
at the trial.-Laws of 1891, p. 34, § 4. 
§ 781. (1664.] Party's testimony not conclusive. The testimony of
a party, upon examination at the trial, or by deposition, or upon inter­ 
rogatories filed, may be rebutted by adverse testimony.-Laws of 1891,
p. 34, § 5. 
§ 782. (1665.J If party refuse to testify, his pleading may be
stricken and Judgment taken against him. If a party refuse to
attend and testify at the trial, or to give his deposition, or to answer any
interrogatories filed, his complaint, answer or reply may be stricken out,
and judgment taken against him, and he may also, in the discretion of
the court, be proceeded against as in other cases for a contempt : Pro­
vided, That the preceding sections shall not be construed so as to compel
any person to answer any question where such answer may tend to crim­ 
inate himself.-Laws of 1891, p. 34, § 6. 
Waite v. Wingate, 30 P., 81; 4 W., 324. 
i 783. In what eases depositions may be taken. 
e 784. May be taken at any time after service
or summons. 
e 785. Manner of taking-Three days notice,
etc. 
I ']86, Court may shorten time of notice. 
e 787. Witnesses may be subpcenaed. 
e 788. Depositions taken out of the state. 
i 78g. Commission required, to whom issued­
Interrogatories to be settled. 
f 7~. Notice by publication of taking deposi­
tions. 
§ 783. (1666.] In what cases depositions may be taken. The testi­
mony of a witness may be taken by deposition, to be read in evidence in 
an action, suit, or proceeding commenced and pending in any court in this
territory, in the following cases: . __ 
1. When the witness resides out of the sub-district, and more than
twenty miles from the place of trial. 
2. When the witness is about to leave the sub-district and go more
than twenty miles from the place of trial, and there is a probability that
he will continue absent when the testimoney is required. 
3. When the witness is sick, infirm or aged so as to make it probable
that he will not be able to attend the trial. 
4. When the witness resides out of the territory. +Code of 1881, § 409.
~ 784. (1667.] May be taken at any time after service of sum­ 
mons. Either party may commence taking testimony by depositions at
any time after service of summons upon the defendants.-Code of 1881, 
§ 410. 
CHAPTER LXIV. 
DEPOSITIONS. 
i 791. Depositions to be written, signed and
certified. 
i 792. How transmitted and delivered. 
i 793. How used on trial - Objections how
made-Narrative form allowed-Sign­
ing. 
i 794. When deposition shall not be used. 
i 795- When depositions in one cause may be
used in another. 
i 7¢,. Depositions may be used on appeal. 
§ 785. (1668.] Manner of takini-Three days' notice, etc. Either
party may have the deposition of a witness taken in this state before any 
judge of the superior court, justice of the peace, clerk of the supreme or
superior court, mayor of a city, or notary public, by serving on the ad­
verse party or his attorney previous notice of the time and place of exam­
ination. The notice shall be served such time before the time when the
deposition is to be taken as to allow the adverse party sufficient time by
the usual route of travel to attend, and three days for preparation, exelu­
sive of the day of service, and the examination may, if so stated in the
notice, be adjourned from day to day. The notice shall specify the action
or proceeding, the name of the court or tribunal in which the deposition
is to be used, and the time and place of taking the deposition. It shall
be served upon the adverse party, his agent or attorney of record, or be 
left at his usual place of abode.-Laws of 1891, p. 34, § 7. 
Hobert v. Jones, 31 P., 878. 
§ 786. [1699.J Court may shorten time of notice. The court, or a
judge thereof, or in an action or proceedings before a justice of the peace,
the justice, may, upon sufficient cause being shown by affidavit, prescribe 
a shorter time for notice than that specified in the last preceding section.
A copy of the order shortening the time must be served with the notice .
-Laws of 1891, p. 35 § 8. 
§ 787. [1670.] Witnesses may be subpc»naed. Any witness may be
subpeenaed and compelled, by any officer .authorized to take depositions 
to appear and give his deposition at any place within twenty miles of the
abode of such witness in like manner as he may be subpeenaed and com­
pelled to attend as a witness in any court, and he shall suffer the same
penalties for a failure to attend as are prescribed in section [fifteen hun­
dred and eighty-seven] [sixteen hundred and fifty-five] [772].-Laws of 
1891, p. 35, § 9· 
§ 788. [1671.] Depositions taken out of state. Depositions may be
taken out of the territory by a judge, justice or chancellor or clerk of any
court of record, a justice of the peace, notary public, mayor, or chief
magistrate of any city or town, or any person authorized by a special com­
mission from any court of this territory.-Code of 1881, § 412. 
§ 789. r1672.] Commission required, to whom issued-Interroga­
tories to be settled. Any superior court in this state, or any judge
thereof, is authorized to grant a commission to take depositions within or 
without this state, The commission must be issued to a person or persons
therein named, by the clerk, under the seal of the- court granting the
same, and depositions under it must be taken upon written interroga­
tories, unless the parties otherwise agree. Before any such commission
shall be granted, the person intending to apply therefor shall serve upon
the adverse party a notice of his intention to make such application, stat­
ing the time when and the place where such application will be made,
which notice shall be served in the same manner and for the same time as
provided in section [sixteen hundred] [sixteen hundred and sixty-eight]
[785], unless the court or judge, for sufficient cause shown by affidavit,
prescribe a shorter time. At the time the application is presented, the
court or judge shall settle the interrogatories. The clerk, upon issuing
the commission, shall attach the interrogatories thereto and immediately
forward the same to the commissioner.-Laws of 1891, p. 35, § 10. 
§ 790. [1673.] Notice by publication of taking deposition. When
the party against whom the deposition is to be read is absent from or a 
non-resident of the state, and has no agent or attorney of record therein,
he may be notified of the taking of the deposition [or] of the application
for a commission by publication. The publication must be made three
consecutive weeks in some . newspaper printed in the county where the
action or proceeding is pending, if there be any printed in such county,
and if not, in some newspaper printed in the state, of general circulation
in that county. The publication must contain all that is required in the
written or printed notice, and may be proved in the manner prescribed in 
case of the publication of summons.-Laws of 1891, p. 35, § 11. 
§ 791. [1674.] Depositions to be written, signed and certified. The
deposition shall be written by the officer taking the same, or by the wit­ 
ness, or by some disinterested person, in the presence and under the di­
rection of such officer. When completed, it shall be carefully read to or
by the witness, corrected if desired, and subscribed by him. If taken
upon notice, it shall be certified by the officer substantially as follows : 
State of Washington, } s
County of--. s · 
I. A. B., justice of the peace in and for said county ( or judge, clerk,·
etc., as the case may be), do hereby certify.that the above deposition was
taken before me, and reduced to writing by myself (or witness, as the case
may be), at--, in said county, on the -- day of --, 18-, at -­
o'clock, in pursuance of notice hereto annexed ; that the above-named
witness, before examination, was sworn ( or affirmed) to testify the truth,
the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, and that the said deposition
was carefully read to (or by) said witness, and then subscribed by him. 
A. B., Justice of the Peace.
Dated at--, the -- day of--, 18-. 
If the deposition be taken upon a commission, the commission[er] shall
[testify] [cerlzyf] it in substantially the same manner, and annex to it the
commission and interrogatories.-Laws of 18911 p. 361 § 12. 
§ 792. [1675.] Bow transmitted and delivered. The deposition,
whether taken upon notice or upon a commission, shall be inclosed in a
sealed envelope by the officer taking the same and directed to the clerk of 
the court, arbitrators, referee or justice of the peace before whom the
action is pending, or to such person as the parties in writing may agree
upon, and either delivered to the clerk of the court or other person, or
transmitted through the mail or by some private persoiJ..-Laws of 1891, 
p. 36, § 13. 
Phelps v. steamship "City of Panama," I W. !·, 615. 
§ 793. [1676.] Bow used on trial-Objections how made-Narra­
tive form allowed-Signing. Such deposition may be used by either
party upon the trial or other proceeding against any party giving or
receiving the notice, subject to all legal exceptions, to the competency or 
credibility of the witness, or the manner of taking the deposition. But if
the parties attend at the examination, no objection to the form of an inter­
rogatory shall be made at the trial, unless the same was taken at the
time of the examination. It shall be the duty of the person taking the
deposition to propound to the witness every question proposed by either
party, and to note all objections to the form of any interrogatory, and
when any interrogatory is objected to on account of form, unless the form
is amended and the objection waived, he shall write after the question
and before the answer the words "objected to," and when any witness 
declines to answer a question on the ground that it will criminate him­
self, that fact shall also be noted after the question if written down. 
The deposition may be taken in the form of'-a narrative, or by question
and answer, or partly in either form, as either party present at the exam­
ination shall require. When taken by question and answer the officer
shall first write down the question and then the answer, as nearly as may
be in the language of the witness ; but when the deposition is read to the
witness previous to signing it, he shall be permitted to amend his answer
to any question, or any part of his deposition; such amendment, how­
ever, unless both parties shall otherwise agree, shall not be made by way
of interlining or erasing, but shall be added to the end of the deposition
under the title '' amendment by the witness,'' and such amendment shall
intelligibly refer to the part so amended.-Code of 1881, § 418. 
Phelps v. S. S. City of Panama, I W. T., 615. State v. Humason, 32 P., 111. 
§ 794. (1677.] When deposition shall not be used. If it appear at
the trial that the reason for taking the deposition no longer exists, the
deposition shall not be read in evidence unless the party offering it show 
that another of the causes specified by section (fifteen hundred and nine­
ty-eight] [sixteen lzundred and sixry-siX'] (783] then exists, or that the
witness is dead, or cannot safely attend at the trial on account of sickness,
age or other bodily infirmity.-Laws of 1891, p. 37, § 14. 
§ 795. (1678.] When depositions in one cause may be used in
another. When the plaintiff in any action shall discontinue it, or when
it shall be dismissed for any cause, and another action shall afterwards 
be commenced for the same cause between the same parties, or their
respective representatives, all depositions lawfully taken in the first
action may be used in the other, in the same manner and subject to the
same conditions and objections as if originally taken for such other
action: Provided, that the deposition shall have been duly filed in the
court where the first action was pending. and shall have remained in the
custody of the court, from the termination of the first action until the
commencement of the other.-Code of 1881, § 420. · 
§ 796. (1679.] Depositions may be used on appeal. When any
action shall have been appealed from one court to another and is to be
tried anew in the appellate court, all depositions lawfully taken to be used 
in the court from which the appeal was taken may be used in the appel­
late court in the same manner and subject to such exceptions for
informality or irregularity, and none other, as were taken in writing to
such depositions in the court below; and when an action is removed
from one court to another by change of venue, all depositions previously
taken in the action must be certified to the court to which the action is
removed, and may be used in that court in the same manner and subject
to the same exceptions as if originally taken for use therein.-Laws of 
1891, p. 37' § 15. 
§ 797. [1680.] Records of any court to be evidence when authen­
ticated. The records and proceedings of any court of the United States,
or any state or territory, shall be admissible in evidence in all cases in 
this territory when duly authenticated by the attestation of the clerk,
prothonotary or other officer having charge of the records of such court,
with the seal of such court annexed.--Code of _1881, § 430. 
Ritchie v. Carpenter, 2 W., 512; 28 P., 38o; R. S. U. S., § 905. 
§ 798. [1681.] Certified copy of public records. Copies of all records
and documents on record or on file in the offices of the various depart­
ments of the United States and of this state, when duly certified by the 
respective officers having by law the custody thereof, under their re­
spective seals where such officers have official seals, shall be admitted in 
evidence in the courts of this state.-Laws of 1891, p. 37, § 16. 
Fairhaven Land Co. v. Jordon, 32 P., 729. 
§ 799. [1682.] Certificate of land officers, etc., to be prima facie
evidence of title. Any certificate of· residence and cultivation of the
public lands issued by the surveyor-general of Oregon or Washington ter­
ritory, or by -the register and receiver of either of the land offices therein, 
or any certificate, receipt or exemplification of the records of either of
said offices issued to any settler upon, or purchaser of said lands, or in
any way affecting the rights of parties to lands in said territory, issued or
given in pursuance of law, or as evidence of any matter recorded in either
of said offices, or any copies of maps, plats or diagrams of land claims of
every nature or kind, or plats of the public surveys, certified by either of
said officers, shall be admitted as evidence in all the courts of this terri­
tory. In actions affecting real estate, such ·certificate shall be prima 
fad« evidence that the title of the lands mentioned or described in such
receipt is in the person or persons named therein.-Code of 1881, § 433. 
Sayward v. Gardner, 31 P., 769. 
NOTit: See laws of 18g3, p. 402, § 32. 
§ 800. [1683.] Impression sufllcient for seal of officer. A seal of
court or public office, when required to any writ, process, or proceeding to 
authenticate a copy of any record or document, may be affixed by making
an impression directly on the paper which shall be as valid as if made 
upon a wafer or on wax.-Code of 1881, § 434. 
§ 801. [1684.] J'oreign statutes presumptive evidence. Printed
copies of the statute laws of any state, territory, or foreign government,
if purporting to have .been published under the authority of the respec­ 
tive governments, or if commonly admitted and read as evidence in their
courts, shall be admitted in all courts in this territory, and on all other 
occasions as presumptive evidence of such laws.-Code of 1881, § 435.
§ 802. [1685.] Certified copy of recorded instruments. Whenever 
any deed, conveyance, bond, mortgage or other writing shall have been
recorded or filed in pursuance of law, copies of record of such deed, con­
veyance, bond or other writing, duly certified by the officer having the
lawful custody thereof, with the seal of the office annexed, if there be
such seal, if there be no such seal, then with the official certificate of
such officer, shall be received 'in evidence to all intents and purposes as
the originals themselves.-Code of 1881, § 431. 
§ 803. [ 1499. *] Oopy of articles proof of corporation.· A copy of
the certificate of incorporation filed in pursuance of this chapter 
and certified by the auditor of the county in which it is filed, or his
deputy, or by the secretary of the territory, shall be received in all the
courts and places as prima fade evidence of the facts therein stated.-- 
Code of 1881, § 2423. · 
§ 8o4. (766. *] City ordinances, how proved. All ordinances passed
by any city council or board of trustees or other municipal corporation 
within the territory of Washington, shall be recorded in a book to be
kept for that purpose by the city clerk, or clerk of such board of trus­
tees, or municipal corporation of such city, and when so recorded the
record thereof so made shall be received in any court of this territory as 
pn·ma fade evidence of the due passage of such ordinances as recorded,
and this act shall apply as well to all ordinances heretofore as hereafter
so passed and recorded. And when the ordinances of any city or town
are printed by authority of such municipal corporation the printed copies
thereof shall be received as p, ima facie evidence that such ordinances as 
· printed and published were duly passed.-Code of 1881, § 2o62. 
NOTE: See laws of 1893, p. 164, § IO. 
§ 805. (1686.] Court may order inspection and exclude evidence
if refused. · Any court, or judge thereof, in which an action is pending,
may, upon notice, order either party to give to the other within a speci­
fied time, an inspection and copy, or permission to take a copy of any 
book, document or paper in bis possession, or under his control, contain­
ing evidence relating to the merits of the action or· defense therein. If
compliance with the order be refused, the court may exclude the book,
document or paper from being given in evidence, or if wanted as evidence
by the party applying, may direct the jury to presume it to be such as 
he alleges it to be, and the court may also punish the party refusing as
for contempt. This section shall not be construed to prevent a party
from compelling another to produce books, papers or documents where
he is examined as a witness.--Code of 1881, § 428. 
§ 806. (1687.] If inspection and copy given, genuineness need not
be proved. If either party, at any time before trial, allow the other an
inspection of any writing, material to the action, whether mentioned in 
the pleadings or not, and deliver to him a copy thereof, with notice that
he intends to read the same in evidence on the trial of the cause, it may
be so read without proof of its genuineness or execution, unless denied
by affidavit before the commencement of the trial. If such denial be
made of any writing not mentioned in the pleadings, the court may give
time to either party to procure evidence, when necessary for the further­ 
ance of justice.-Code of 1881, § 429. 
CHAPTER LXVI. 
PROClUtDINGS TO PERPETUATlt TESTIMONY. 
I So7. Statement under oath required for exam­
ination. 
i 8o8. Twenty days notice of hearlng-Publi·
cation. 
i &9. Court may direct commission to issue. 
I 810. Deposition must be upon written inter·
rogatorles. 
f Sn. Deposition to be filed when returned-«
Wben used-Objections. 
§ 807. (1688.] Statement under oath required for examination. 
When any person shall be desirous to perpetuate the testimony of any 
witn°ess be shall make a statement in· writing, setting forth briefly and
substantially his title, claim or interest in or to the subject concerning
which he desires to perpetuate the evidence,· and the names of all the
persons interested or supposed to be interested therein and also the name
of the witness proposed to be examined, which statement shall be under
oath and filed in the superior court. If the subject of the proposed depo­
sition relate to real property within this state the statement shall be filed
in the county where the lands or any part thereof lie; in other cases in
the county where the parties interested or some of them reside. . Upon
such statement, an application may be made to such court, or judge
thereof to allow the examination of such witness.-Laws of 1891, p. 37, 
§ 17. 
§ 808. [1689.] Twenty days notice of hearing-Publication. The
court or judge shall appoint a time and place for hearing such applica­
tion, and shall order notice thereof and of the statement, to be served on
all persons mentioned therein as adversely interested in the matter. The
notice shall be served perspnally on all those living in the territory at
least twenty days before the time of hearing the application. Upon those
who are not residents of the territory, it shall be served by [application]
[publication] or otherwise, in the same manner as a notice is served upon
a non-resident.-Code of 1881, § 424. 
§ 809. [1690.] Court may direct commission to issue. If upon
hearing of the parties, or of the applicant alone should no adverse party 
appear, the court or·judge shall be satisfied that there is sufficient cause
for taking the deposition, an order shall be made allowing the examina­
tion of the witness; and such court or judge may direct a commission to
issue therefor in like manner as a commission to take the testimony of
witnesses in actions or proceedings pending in such court.-Laws of 
1891, p. 37, § 18. 
§ Bro, [1691.] Deposition must be upon written interrogatories. 
The deposition of such witness, whether residing in this territory or not,
shall be taken upon written interrogatories filed by the applicant, and cross­
interrogatories filed by any party adversely interested, if he shall think
fit, and it shall be taken and returned substantially in the same manner
as if taken upon commission, to be used in any cause pending in the same
court.-Code of 1881, § 426. 
§ sr r. [1692.] Deposition to be flied when returned-When used­
Objections. The deposition when returned shall be filed in the office of 
the clerk of the court by whom the commission was issued, and if a trial
be had between the person, at whose request the deposition was taken,
and the person named in the statement, or any of them, or their succes­
sors in interest, upon proof of the death or insanity of the witness, or his
inability to attend the trial by reason of age, sickness, or settled infirmity,
the deposition or a certified copy thereof, may be used by either party,
subject to all legal objections. But if the parties attend at the examina­
tion, no objections to the form of the interrogatory shall be made at the
trial, unless the· same were taken at the time of the examination.-Code 
Of 1881, § 427. I 
~ 812. [1693.] feraona who may take testimony-Oaths and
afllrmations. Every court, judge, clerk of a court, justice 'of the peace,
or notary public is authorized to take testimony in any action, suit, or 
proceeding, and such other persons in particular cases as authorized by
law. Every such court or officer is authorized to administer oaths and
affirmations generally, and every such other person in such particular
case as authorized.-Laws of 1869, p. 378, § r, 
§ 813. [ 16g4.] Manner of administering an oath. An oath may be
administered as follows : The person who swears holds up his hand, 
while the person administering the oath thus addresses him: "You do
solemnly swear that the evidence you shall give in the issue, (or matter), 
now pending between and·------------------------- shall be
the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God.'' 
If the oath be administered to any other than a witness giving testimony,
the form may be changed to : •' You do solemnly swear you will true
answers make to such questions as you may be asked," etc., etc.-Laws
of 1869, p. 378, § 2. · 
§ 814. (1695.] Other modes of administration. Whenever the
court or officer before which a person is offered as a witness is satisfied
that he has a peculiar form of swearing connected with or in addition to
the usual form of administration, which, in the witnesses' opinion, is more 
solemn or obligatory, the court or officer may, in its discretion, adopt
that mode.-Laws '!( 1869, p. 379, § 3. 
§ 815. [ 1696.] When person believes in other than Ohristian re­
ligion. When a person is sworn who believes in any other than the 
Christian religion, he may be sworn according to the peculiar ceremonies
of his religion, if there be any such.-Laws of 1869, p. 379, § 4. 
§ 816. [1697.] Conscientious scruples against taking oath-Afflrm­
ation. Any person who has conscientious scruples against taking an 
oath may make his solemn affirmation, by assenting, when addressed in
the following manner : " You do solemnly affirm that," etc., as in section 
two (813].--,?.aws of 1869, p. 379, § 5·
§ 817. (1698.] Affirmation deemed equal to an oath-l'alse a8lrma­ 
tion deemed perjury. Whenever an oath is required, au affirmation as
prescribed in the last section is to be deemed equivalent thereto, and a
false affirmation is to be deemed perjury equally with a false oath.-Laws 
of 1869, p. 379, § 6. 
§ 818. (16.99.] If original lost or destroyed, copy may be sub­
stituted. Whenever a pleading, process, return, verdict, bill of excep­
tions, order, entry, stipulation or other act, file or proceeding in any
action or proceeding pending in any court of this state shall have been
lost or destroyed by fire or otherwise, or is withheld by any person, such
court may, upon the application of any party to such action or proceed­
ing, order a copy or substantial copy thereof to be substituted.-Laws of 
1890, p. 337, § I. 
§ 819. [1700.] Records of the court-Bow replaced. Whenever
the record required by law of the proceedings, judgment, or decree in any 
action or other proceeding of any court in this state in which a final judg­
ment has been rendered, or any part thereof, is lost or destroyed by fire
or otherwise, such court may, upon the application of any party inter­
ested herein, grant an order authorizing such record or parts thereof to be
supplied or replaced.- 
I. By a certified copy of such original record or part thereof, when the
same can be obtained ; 
2. By a duly certified copy of the record in the supreme court of such
original record of any action or proceeding that may have been removed
to the supreme court, and remain[s] recorded or filed in said supreme
court; 
3. By the original pleadings, entries, papers and files in such action
or proceeding, when the same can be obtained; 
4. By an agreement in writing, signed by all the parties to such action
or proceeding, their representatives or attorneys, that a substituted copy
of such original record is substantially correct.-Laws of 1889·90, p. 
338, § 2. 
§ 820. [1701.] Suitsmaybebroughttorestorelostrecords. When­
ever the record required by law, or any part thereof, of the proceedings or 
judgment or decree in any action or other proceeding of any court in this
state in which the final judgment has been rendered, is lost or destroyed.
by fire or otherwise, and such loss cannot be supplied or replaced as pro­
vided in section two of this act (819], any person or party interested
therein may make a written application to the court to which said record
belongs, setting forth the substance of the record so lost or destroyed,
which application shall be verified in the manner provided for the verifica­
tion of pleadings in a civil action, and thereupon summons shall issue
and actual service, or service by publication, shall be made upon all per­
sons interested in or affected by said original judgment or final entry in
the manner provided by law for the commencement of civil actions, pro­
vided the parties may waive the issuing or service of summons and enter
their appearance to such application ; and upon the hearing of such ap- 
plication without further pleadings, if the court finds that such record
has been lost or destroyed and that it is enabled by the evidence
produced to find the substance or effect thereof material to the preserva­
tion of the rights of the parties thereto, it shall make an order allowing
a record, which record shall recite the substance and effect of said lost or
destroyed record, or part thereof, and the same shall thereupon be re­
corded in said court, and shall have the same effect as the original record
would have if the same had not been lost or destroyed, so far as it con­
cerns the rights of the parties so making the application, or persons or
parties so served with summons, or entering their appearance, or persons
claiming under them by a title acquired subsequently to the filing of the
application.-Laws of 1889-90, p. 338, § 3· 
§ 821. [1702.] Evidence in such suits. Upon the hearing of the
application provided in section three [820] the court may admit in evidence
oral testimony and any complete or partial abstract of such record,
docket entries or indices, and any other written evidence of the contents
or effect of such records and published reports concerning such actions or
proceedings, when the court is of the opinion that such abstracts, writ­
ings and publications were fairly and honestly made before the loss of 
such records occured.-Laws of 1889-90, p. 339, § 4. 
§ 822. [1703.] Time of appeal extended where judgment de­
stroyed. Whenever a lost or destroyed judgment or order is one to
which either party bas a right to a proceeding in error or of appeal, the 
time intervening between the filing of the application mentioned in sec­
tion three [820] and the final order of the court thereon shall be excluded
in computing the time within which such proceeding or appeal may be · 
taken as provided by 1aw.-Laws of 1889-90, p. 339, § 5.
§ 823. [1704.] Costs in suits to restore lost records. The costs to 
be taxed upon an application tc restore a lost or destroyed record shall be
the same as are provided for like service in civil actions, and may be ad­
judged against either or any party to such proceeding or application or
may, in the discretion of the court, be apportioned between such par­
ties.-Laws of 1889-90, p. 339, § 6. 
§ 824. [1705.] Bow records may be restored in probate court. In
case of loss or destruction by fire or otherwise of the records, or any part 
thereof, of any probate court or superior court having probate jurisdic­
tion, the judge of any such court may proceed, upon its own motion or
upon application in writing of any party in interest, to restore the records,
papers and proceedings of either of said courts relating to the estates of
deceased persons, including recorded wills, wills probated, or filed for
probate in such courts, all marriage records and all other records and pro­
ceedings, and for the purpose of restoring said records, wills, papers, or
proceedings, or any part thereof, may cause citations or other process to
be issued to any and all parties to be designated by him, and may com­
pel the attendance in court of any and all witnesses whose testimony
may be necessary to the establishment of any such record or part thereof,
and the production of any and all written or documentary evidence which
may be by him deemed necessary in determining the true import and
effect of the original record, will, paper or other document belonging to
the files of said court ; and may make such orders and decrees establish­
ing such original record, will, paper, document or proceeding, or the sub­
stance thereof, as to him shall seem just and proper. The judge of the 
probate court may, in vacation, perform any of the duties imposed upon
him by this section.-Laws of 1889-90, p. 340, § 7. 
§ 825. [17o6.] Costs to be paid by party interested. The costs
incurred in the probate and superior courts in proceedings under sections 
six and seven (823 and 824] shall be paid by the party or parties inter­
ested in such proceedings or in whose behalf such proceedings are insti­ 
tuted.-Laws of 1889-90, p. 340, § 8. 
§ 826. Action must be brought within seven years. That all ac­
tions brought for the recovery of any lands, tenements or hereditaments 
of which any person may be possessed by actual, open and notorious
possession for seven successive years, having a connected title in law or
equity deducible of record from this state or the United States, or from 
any public officer, or other person authorized by the laws of this state to
sell such land for the non-payment of taxes, or from any sheriff, marshal
or other person authorized to sell such land on execution or under any
order, judgment or decree of any court of record, shall be brought with­
in seven years next after possession being taken as aforesaid, but when
the possessor shall acquire title after taking such possession, the limita­
tion shall begin to run from the time of acquiring title.-Laws of 18931 
p. 201 § I. · 
Baer v. Choir, 32 P., 7'78. 
§ 827. Rights of heirs, devisees, etc. The heirs, devisees and as­ 
signs of the person having such title and possession shall have the same
benefit of the preceding section as the person from whom the possession
is derived.-Laws of 1893, p. 20, § 2 • 
. § 828. Seven years adverse possession gives title. Every person
in actual, open and notorious possession of lands or tenements under
claim and color of title, made in good faith, and who shall for seven suc­
cessive years continue in possession, and shall also during said time pay
all taxes legally assessed on such lands or tenements, shall be held and
adjudged to be the legal owner of said lands or tenements, to the extent
and according to the purpore of his or her paper title. All persons hold­
ing under such possession, by purchase, devise or descent, before said
seven years shall have expired, and who shall continue such possession
and continue to pay the taxes as aforesaid, so as to complete the posses­
sion and payment of taxes for the term aforesaid, shall be entitled to the 
benefit of this section.-Laws of 1893, p. 20, § 3. 
§ 829. Payment of taxes on vacant land. Every person having
color of title made in good faith. to vacant and unoccupied land, who shall 
pay all taxes legally assessed thereon for seven successive years, he or
she shall be deemed and adjudged to be the legal owner of said vacant
and unoccupied land to the extent and according to the purport of his or
her paper title. All persons holding under such taxpayer, by purchase,
devise or descent, before said seven years shall have expired, and who
shall continue to pay the taxes as aforesaid, so as to complete the pay­
ment of said taxes for the term aforesaid, shall be entitled to the benefit
of this section: Provided, however, If any person having a better paper title to said vacant and unoccupied land shall, during the said term of
seven years, pay the taxes as assessed on said land for any one or more
years of said term of seven years, then and in that case such taxpayer,
his heirs or assigns, shall not be entitled to 'the benefit of this section.­ 
Laws of 1893, p. 21, § 4. 
§ 830. Public lands, infants, etc. The two preceding sections shall
not extend to lands or tenements owned by the United States or this state,
nor to school lands, nor to lands held for any public purpose. Nor shall
they extend to lands or tenements when there shall be an adverse title to
such lands or tenements, and the bolder of such adverse title is an infant
or person under legal age, or insane : Provided, Such persons as afore­
said shall commence an action to recover such lands or tenements so pos­
sessed as aforesaid, within three years after the several disabilities herein
enumerated shall cease to exist, and shall prosecute such action to judg­
ment, or in case of vacant and unoccupied land shall, within the time last
aforesaid, pay to the person or persons who have paid the same for his or
her betterments, and the taxes, with interest on said taxes at the legal
rate per annum that have been paid on said vacant and unimproved land. 
-Laws of 1893, p. 21, § s. 
§ 831. Liberal construction. That the provisions of this act shall be
liberally construed for the purposes set forth in this act.-Laws of 1893,
p. 21, 6. 
ACT OF 1890. 
§ 8~2. (529.] Actions against tenants or claimants fQr possession,
etc. Any person having a valid subsisting interest in real property, and 
a right to the possession thereof, may recover the same by action in the
superior court of the proper county, to be brought against the tenant in
possession ; if there is no such tenant, then against the person claiming
the title or some interest therein, and may have judgment in such action
quieting or removing a cloud from plaintiff's title; and in all actions un­
der this section to quiet or remove a cloud from the title to real property,
if the defendant be absent or a non-resident of this state, or cannot after
due diligence, be found within the state, or conceals himself to avoid the
service of summons, service may be made upon such defendant by publi­
cation of summons as provided by law ; and the court may appoint a
trustee for such absent or non-resident defendant, to make or cancel any
deed or conveyance of whatsoever nature, or do any other act to carry in­
to effect the judgment or the decree of the court.-Laws of 1890, p. 72, 
§ I. . 
Green v. T9icoma 51 Fed., 622. Lewis v. Lichty, 28 P., 356; 3 W., 213. Spethill
v. Jones, 28 P., 531; 3 W., 290. Wagner v. Law, 28 P., 1109; 3 W., 500.
Smith v. Wingard, 3 W. T., 291; 13 P., 717. Burmeister v. Howard, I W. T.,
207. Meeker v. Gilbert, 3 W. T., 36g; 19 P., 18. Hays v. Parker, 2 W. T.,
rg8; 3 P., 901. Jackson v. Tatebo, 28 P., 916; 3 W., 456. Scurry v. Jones,
4 W., 648; 30 P., 726. 
CODE OF 1881. 
§ 833. (530.] L&lldlord may be substituted for tenant. A defend­
ant who is in actual possession may, for answer, plead that be is in pos­ 
session only as a tenant of another, naming him and bis place of resi­
dence, and thereupon the landlord, if he apply therefor, sha11 be made de­
fendant in place of the tenant, and the action shall proceed in all respects
as if originally commenced against him. If the landlord do not apply to
be made defendant within the time the tenant is allowed to answer, there­
after he shall not be allowed to, but he shall be made defendant if the
plaintiff require it. If the landlord be made defendant on motion of the
plaintiff he shall be required to appear and answer within ten days from
notice of the pendency of the action and the order making him defendant, 
or such further notice as the court or judge thereof may prescribe.-Code 
of 1881, § 537· .
§ 834. (531.] Pleadings-Superior title prevails. The plaintiff in 
such action shall set forth in his complaint the nature of his estate, claim
or title to the property, and the defendant may set up a legal or equitable
defense to plaintiff's claims; and the superior title, whether legal or
equitable, shall prevail. The property shall be described with such cer­
tainty as to enable the possession thereof to be delivered if a recovery be 
had.-Code of 1881, § 538. · 
Parker v. Dacres, 24 P., 192., 1 W. 190. 
§ 835. (532.] Defendant must plead title-May defend as to part. 
The defendant shall not be allowed to give in evidence any estate in him­
self or another in the property;, or any license or right to the possession
thereof, unless the same be pleaded in his answer. If so pleaded, the na­
ture and duration of such estate or license or right to the possession, shall
be set forth with the certainty and particularity required in a complaint.
If the defendant does not defend for the whole of the property, he shall
specify for what particular part he does defend. In au action against a
tenant, the judgment shall be conclusive against a landlord who has been
made defendant in place of the tenant, to the same extent as if the action
had been originally commenced against him.-Code of 1881, § 539. 
Hays v. Parker, 2 W. T., 1g8 ; 3 P., 901. 
§ 836. (533.] Verdict in such cases. The jury by their verdict shall
find as follows : 
1. If the verdict be for the plaintiff, that he is entitled to the possession
of the property described in the complaint, or some part thereof, or some
undivided share or interest in either, and the nature and duration of his
estate in such property, part thereof, or undivided share or interest, in
either, as the case may be. 
2. If the verdict be for the defendant, that the plaintiff is not entitled to
the possession of the property described in the complaint, or to such part
thereof as the defendant defends for, and the estate in such property or part thereof, or license, or right to the possession of either established on
the trial by the defendant, if any, in effect as the same is required to 
be pleaded.-Code of 1881, § 540. 
§ 837. (534.] Damages limited to six years-D,,fendant entitled 
to improvements. The plaintiff shall only be entitled to recover dam­
ages for withholding the property for the term of six years next preced­
ing the commencement of the action, and for any period that may elapse
from such commencement, to the time of giving a verdict therein, exclu­
sive of the use of permanent improvements made by the defendant.
When permanent improvements have been made upon the property by
the defendant, or those. under whom he claims holding under color of title adversely to the claim of the plaintiff, in good faith, the value there­
of at the time of the trial shall be allowed as a set-off against such dam­ 
ages.-Code of 1881, § 541.
Blumberg v. McNear & Co., 1 W. T. 141. Meeker v. Gardella, 23 P., 837; 1 W., 
139. Eisenbach v. Hatfield, 2 W., 263; 26 P. 539. 
§ 838. (535.] Plaintiff to recover damages only, if his title has ex­
pired. If the right of the plaintiff to the possession of the property ex­ 
pire, after the commencement of the action and before the trial, the ver- 
diet shall be given according to the fact, and judgment shall be given
only for the damages.-Code of 1881, § 542. 
§ 839. [536.] Land to be measured before trial. The court, or judge
thereof, on motion, and after notice to the adverse party, may, for cause
shown, grant an order allowing the party applying therefor to enter upon
the property in controversy and make survey and admeasurement thereof, 
for the purposes of the action.-Code of 1881, § 543. 
§ 840. [537.] Order for measurement-Service of. The order
shall describe the property, and a copy thereof shall be served upon the 
defendant, and thereupon the party may enter upon the property and make
. such survey and admeasurement ; but if any unnecessary injury be done 
to the premises he shall be liable therefor.-Code of 1881, § 544.
~ 841. [538.] Transfers pending action. An action for the recovery 
of the possession of real property against a person in possession, cannot
be prejudiced by any alienation made by such person either before or after
the commencement of the action; but if such alienation be made after
the commencement of the action, and the defendant do not satisfy the
judgment recovered for damages for withholding' the possession, such
damages may be recovered by action against the purchaser.-Code of 
1881, § 545·
§ 842. [539.] Mortgagee cannot maintain ejectment. A mortgage 
of real property shall not be deemed a conveyance so as to enable the
owner of the mortgage to recover possession of the real property, without
a foreclosure and sale according to law.-Code o/ 1881, § 546. 
Miller v. Ansenig, 2 W. T., 22; 3 P., III. Parker v. Dacres 2 W. T., 439; 7 P.,
862-893. 
§ 843. [540.] Action between co-tenants. In an action by a tenant
in common, or a joint tenant of real property against his co-tenant, the 
plaintiff must show, in addition to his evidence of right, that the defend­
ant either denied the plaintiff's right or did some act amounting to such 
denial.-Code of 1881, § 547. 
Ralph v. Lomer, 2 W., 4o8, 28 P., 700.
NoTB: Some of the provisions of the following section from the Code of 1881 
may still be in force : When in the case of a lease of real property and the
failure of tenant to pay rent, the landlord has a subsisting right to re-enter
for such failure ; he may bring an action to recover the possession of such
property, and such action is equivalent to a demand of the rent and a re­
entry upon the property. But if at any time before the judgment in such
action, the lessee or his successor in interest as to the whole or a part of the
property, pay to the plaintiff, or bring into court the amount of rent then in
arrear, with interest and cost of action, and perform the other covenants or
agreements on the part of the Iessee, he shall be entitled to continue in the
possession according to the terms of the lease.-Code of 1881, § 548. 
§ 844. [541.l Judgments conclusive except upon defendant
served by publication. In an action to recover the possession of real
property, the judgment therein shall be conclusive as to the estate in 
such property and the right to the possession thereof, so far as the same
is thereby determined, upon the party against whom the same is given,
and against all persons claiming from, through or under such party after
the commencement of such action, except as in this section provided.
When service of· the notice is made by publication, and judgment is
given for failure to answer, at any time within two years from the entry
thereof, the defendant or his successor in interest as to the whole or any part of the property, shall, upon application to the court or judge there­
of, be entitled to an order vacating the judgment and granting him a
new trial, upon the payment of the costs of the action.-Code of 1881, 
§ 549. 
§ 845. [542.J Possession not disturbed by vacating judgment. If
the plaintiff has taken possession of the property before the judgment is
set aside and a new trial granted, as provided in the preceding section, 
such possession shall not be thereby affected in any way; and if judgment
be given for defendant in the new trial, he shall be entitled to restitution
by execution in the same manner as if he were plaintiff. -Code of 1881, 
.§ 550. 
§ 846. [543.J Rule of claimants under donation law. In an action
of law, for the recovery of the possession of real property, if either party 
claim the property as a donee of the United States, and under the act of
congress approved September 27, 1850, commonly called the "donation
law," or the acts amendatory thereof, such party, from the date of his
settlement thereon, as provided in said act, shall be deemed to have a
legal estate in fee, in such property, to continue upon condition that he
perform the conditions required by such acts, which estate is uncondi­
tional and indefeasible after the performance of such conditions. In such
action, if both plaintiff and defendant claim title to the same real prop­
erty, by virtue of settlement, under such acts, such settlement and per­
formance of the subsequent condition shall be prima fade presumed in
favor of the party having or claiming under the elder certificate or pat­
ent, as the case may be, unless it appears upon the face of such certificate
or patent that the same is absolutely voi~.-Code of 1881, § 551. 
Bullene v. Garrison, I W. T., 587. Brezee v. Schofield, 2 W. T., 209; 3 P., 265.
Maynard v. Valentine, 2 W. T,, 3; 3 P., 195. 
§ 847. [544.J Action against adverse claimants generally. Any
person in possession, by himself or his tenant, of real property, and any 
private or municipal corporation in possession by itself or its tenant of
any real property, or when such real property is not in the actual posses­
sion of any one, any person or private or municipal corporation claiming title to any real property under a patent from the United States, or during
his or its claim of title to such real property under a patent from the
United States for such real estate, may maintain a civil action against any
person or persons, corporations or associations claiming an interest in said
real property or any part thereof, or any right thereto, adverse to him,
them, or it, for the purpose of determining such claim, estate, or interest;
and where several persons, or private or municipal corporations are in
possession of, or claim as aforesaid, separate parcels of real property, and 
an adverse interest is claimed or claim made in or to any such parcels, by
any other person, persons, corporations or associations, arising out of a
question, conveyance, statute, grant, or other matter common to all such
parcels of real estate, all or any portion of such persons or corporations
so in possession, or claiming such parcel of real property may unite as
plaintiffs in such suit to determine such adverse claim or interest against
all persons, corporations or associations claiming such adverse interest.­ 
Code of 1881, § 551. 
§ 848. [545.] Action by occupant of unsurveyed land. Any per­
son now occupying and settled upon, or who may hereafter occupy or 
settle upon, any of the unsurveyed public lands not to exceed one hun- 
dred and sixty acres in this territory, for the purpose of holding and cul­
tivating the same, may commence and maintain any action, in any court
of competent jurisdiction, for interference with or injuries done to bis or
her possessions of said lands, against any person or persons so interfering
with or injuring such lands or possessions: Provided, always, That if any
of the aforesaid class of settlers are absent from their claims continuously,
for a period of six months in any one year, the said person or persons
shall be deemed to have forfeited all rights under this act. -Laws of 1883, 
p. 70, § I. 
ACT OF 1888-TAX SUITS. 
§ 849. (676.] Actions to enjoin and redeem from tax sales-Ten­
der to be made. Hereafter no action or proceeding shall be commenced
or instituted in any court of this territory to enjoin the sale of any prop­ 
erty for taxes, or to enjoin the collection of any taxes. or for the recov­
ery of any property sold for taxes, unless the person or corporation desir­
ing to commence or institute such action or proceeding shall first pay or
cause to be paid, or shall tender to the officer entitled under the law to
receive the same, all taxes, penalties, interest and costs justly due and
unpaid from such person or corporation on the property sought to be sold
or recovered.-Laws of 1887-8, p. 43, § 1. . 
§ 850. [677.] Contents of complaint. That in all actions to enjoin
the sale of any property for taxes, in all actions to enjoin the collection
of any tax, and in all actions for the recovery of any property sold for 
taxes, the complainant must state and set forth specially in his complaint
the tax that is justly due, with penalties, interest and costs, the tax
alleged to be illegal, and point out the illegality thereof, that the taxes
for that and previous years have been paid ; and when the action is for 
the recovery of lands or other property sold for taxes against the person
or corporation in possession thereof that all taxes, penalties, interest and
costs paid by the purchaser at tax sale, his assignees or grantees, have
been fully paid or tendered, and payment refused.-Laws of 1887-8, p. 
44, § 2. 
§ 851. [678.] Construction of provisions. That the provisions of
this act shall be construed as imposing additional conditions upon the
power of the court or judge in granting injunctions to those already im­
posed, and of imposing additional conditions upon the complaint in
actions forthe recovery of property sold for taxes.-Laws of 1887-8, p. 
44, § 3. 
§ 852. [547.] Forcible entries deftned. Every person is guilty of a
forcible entry who either: 
· 1. By breaking open windows, doors or other parts of a house, or by 
fraud, intimidation or stealth, or by any kind of violence or circumstance
of terror, enters upon or into any real property; or- 
2. Who, after entering peaceably upon real property, turns out by
force, threats, or menacing conduct the party in actual possession.-Laws 
of 1891, p. 179, § I. 
§ 853. [548.] Forcible detainers deO.ned. Every person is guilty of
a forcible detainer who either : 
1. By force, or by menaces and threats of violence, unlawfully holds
and keeps the possession of any real property, whether the same was
acquired peaceably or otherwise ; or- 
2. Who, in the night time, or during the absence of the occupant of
any real property, enters thereon, and who, after demand made for the
surrender thereof, refuses for the period of three days to surrender the
same to such former occupant. The occupant of real property, within
the meaning of this subdivision is one who five days next preceding such
unlawful entry was in the peaceable and undisturbed possession of such
real property.-Laws of 1891, p. 179, § 2. 
§ 854. [549.] Unlawful detainers deft11ed. A tenant of real prop·
erty for a term less than life is guilty of unlawful detainer either- 
1. When he holds over or continues in possession, in person or by sub.
tenant, of the property or any part thereof, after the expiration of. the
term for which it is let to him. In all cases where real property is leased
for a specified ternr or period by express or implied contract, whether
written or by parol, the tenancy shall be terminated without notice at the
expiration of such specified term or period ; or: 
2. When he having leased real property for an indefinite time, with
monthly or other periodic rent reserved, continues in possession thereof, in
person or by sub-tenant, after the end of any such month or period, in
cases where thelandlord, more than twenty days prior to the end of such
month or period, shall have served notice (in manner in this act provided)
requiring him to quit the premises at the expiration of such month or
period. 
3. When he continues in possession in person or by sub-tenant after a
default in the payment of any rent, and after a notice in writing requiring
in the alternative the payment of the rent or the surrender of the de­
tained premises, served (in manner hereafter in this act provided) in be­
half of the person entitled to the rent upon the person owing the same,
shall have remained uncomplied with for the period of three days after
service thereof. Such notice may be served at any time after the rent be·
comes due ; or- 
4· When he continues in possession in person or by sub-tenant after a
neglect or failure to keep or perform any other condition or covenant of
the lease or agreement under which the property is held, including any
covenant not to assign or sub-let, than one for the payment of rent, and 
after notice in writing requiring in the alternative the petformance of
such conditions or covenant or the surrender of the property, served (in
the manner provided in this act) upon him, and if there be a sub-tenant
in actual possession of the premises, also upon such sub-tenant, shall re­
main uncomplied with for ten days after service ther.eof. Within ten days
after the service of such notice the tenant, or any sub-tenant in actual
occupation of the premises, or any mortgagee of the term, or other person
interested in its continuance, may perform such condition or covenant and
thereby save the lease from such forfeiture; or- 
5. When he commits or permits waste upon the demised premises, or
when he sets up or carries on therein or thereon any unlawful business,
or when he erects, suffers, permits or maintains on or about said premises 
. any nuisance, and remains in possession after service (in manner in this
act provided) of three days notice to quit upon him.-Laws OJ 1891, p. 
180, § 3. .
§ 855. [550.] Agricultural lands. In all cases of tenancy upon ag­ 
ricultural lands, where the tenant bas held over and retained possession
for more than sixty days after the expiration of his term without any de­
mand or notice to quit by his landlord, if any there be, or the successor
in estate of his landlord, if any there be, he shall be deemed to be hold­
ing by permission of his landlord or the successors in estate of his land­
lord, if any there be, and shall be entitled to bold under the term of the
lease for another full year, and shall not be guilty of an unlawful de­
tainer during said year, and such holding over for the period aforesaid
shall be taken and construed as a consent on the part of a tenant to hold
for another year.-Laws of 1891, p. 181, § 4. 
Bell. Bay etc., Ry. Co. Strand, 23 P., 928; 1 W., 133. 
§ 856. [551.] Notice to be served. Any notice provided for in this
act shall be served either: 
1. By delivering a copy personally to the person entitled thereto; or- 
2. If he be absent from bis place of business, by leaving there a copy,
with some person of suitable age and discretion and sending a copy
through the mail addressed to the person entitled thereto at his place of
residence ; or 
3. If the person to be notified be a tenant and his place of residence is
not known, or if a person of suitable age and discretion there cannot be
found, then by affixing a copy of the notice in a conspicuous place on the
demised property, and also delivering a copy to a person there residing,
if such person can be found, and also sending a copy through the mail
add.essed to the tenant at the place where the demised property is situ­
ated. Service upon a subtenant may be made in the same manner. Any
service in this act provided for may be made by any person who is over
the age of twenty-one years.-Laws of 1891, p. 181, § 5. 
§ 857. [552.] Venue of action. The superior court of the county in
which the property or some part of it is situated shall have jurisdiction 
of proceedings under this act.-Constitution, Art. 4, § 6. Laws of 1891, 
p. 182, § 6. , 
§ 858. (553.] Parties defendant. No person other than the tenant of
the premises, and sub-tenant, if there be one, in the actual occupation of 
the premises when the complaint is filed, need be made parties defendant
in any proceeding under this act, nor shall any proceeding abate, nor the
plaintiff be non-suited, for the non-joinder of any person who might 
have been made party defendant; but when it appears that any of the
parties served with process, or appearing in the proceeding, are guilty of
the offense charged, judgment must be rendered against him. In case a
person has become a sub-tenant of the premises in controversy after the
service of any notice _in this act provided for, the fact that such notice
was not served on such sub-tenant shall constitute no defense to the action.
All persons who enter the premises under the tenant, after the commence­
ment of the action hereunder, shall be bound by the judgment the same
as if they had been madeparties totheaction.-Lawsef1891, p. 182, § 7. 
§ 859. [554.] Complaint and summons-Six to twelve days. The
plaintiff in his complaint, which shall be in writing, must set forth the
facts on which he seeks to recover, and describe the premises with reason­ 
able certainty, and may set forth therein any circumstances of fraud,
force or violence which may have accompanied the said forcible eiUry or
forcible or unlawful detainer, and claim damages therefor, or compensa­
tion for the occupation of the premises, or both; in case the unlawful de­
tainer charged be after default in the payment of rent, the complaint
must state the amount of such rent. Upon filing the complaint . a sum­
mons must be issued as in other cases, returnable at a day designated
therein, which shall not be less than six nor more than twelve days from
its date, except in cases where the publication of summons is necessary,
in which case the court or judge thereof may order that the summons be
made returnable at such time as may be deemed proper, and the summons
shall specify the return day so fixed.-Laws of 1891, p. 182, § 8. 
Chambers v. Hoover, 3 W. T., 20-107; 13 P., 466-go5. 
§ 860. [555.] Contents of summons-Return, etc. The summons
must state the names of the parties to the proceeding, the court in which 
the same is brought, the nature of the action, in concise terms, and the
relief sought, and also the return day ; and must notify the defendant to
appear and answer within the time designated or that the relief sought
will be taken against him. The summons must be directed to the de­
fendant, and in case of summons by publication, be served at least five
days before the return day designated therein. The summons must be
served and returned in the same manner as summons in other civil actions
is served and returned. Upon the return of any summons issued under
this act, when the same has not for any reason been served, or not served
in time, the plaintiff may have a new summons issued the same as if 
no previous summons had been issued.-Laws of 1891, p. 183, § 9. 
§ 861. [556.] Plaintiff may have writ of restitution at any time. 
The plaintiff, at the time of commencing an action of forcible entry or
forcible detainer or unlawful detainer, or at any time afterwards, may
apply to the judge of the court in which the action is pending for a writ
of restitution restoring to plaintiff the property in the complaint de­
scribed, and the judge shall order a writ of restitution to issue. The
writ shall be issued by the clerk of the superior court in which the action
is.pending, and be returnable in twenty days after its date; but before
any writ shall issue prior to judgment the plaintiff shall execute to the·
defendant and file in court a bond in such a sum as the court or judge
may order, with two or more sureties, to be approved by the clerk, con- 
. ditioned that the plaintiff will prosecute his action without delay, and
will pay all costs that may be adjudged to the defendant, and all damages
which he may sustain by reason of the writ of restitution having been 
issued, should the same be wrongfully sued out.-Laws of 1891, p.
183, § IO. 
§ 862. [557.] Service of writ-Defendant may give bond within 
three days. The sheriff shall,· upon receiving the writ of restitution,
forthwith serve a copy thereof upon the defendant, his agent or attorney,
or a person in possession of the premises, and shall not execute the same
for three days thereafter, within which time the defendant, or those in
possession of the premises, may execute to the plaintiff a bond, to be
filed with and approved by the clerk of the court, in such a sum as may
be fixed by the judge, with two or more sureties to be approved by the
clerk of said court, conditioned that they will pay the plaintiff such sum
as the plaintiff may recover for the use and occupation of said premises,
or any rent found due, together with all damages the plaintiff may sus­
tain by reason of the defendant occupying or keeping possession of said
premises, and also all the costs of the action. The plaintiff, his agent or
attorney, shall have notice of the time and place where the court or judge
shall fix the amount of the defendant's bond, and shall have notice and a
reasonable opportunity to examine into the qualification and sufficiency
of the sureties upon said bond, before said bond shall be approved by the 
clerk.-Laws of 1891, p. 183, § 11. 
§ 863. [558.] Provision for altering bond. The plaintiff or defend­
ant, at any time, upon two days' notice to the adverse party, may apply 
to the court or any judge thereof for an order raising or lowering the
amount of any bond in this act provided for. Either party may, upon
like notice, apply to the court or any judge thereof for an order requiring
additional or other surety or sureties upon any such bond. Upon the
hearing of-any application made under the provisions of this section evi­
dence may be given. The judge, after hearing any such application
shall make such an order as shall be just in the premises.-Laws of 1891, 
p. 184, § 12.
§ 864. [559.] Judgment by default. If, at the time appointed in the 
summons, the defendant do not appear and defend, the court must render
judgment in favor of the plaintiff as prayed for in the complaint.-Laws 
of 1891, p. 184, § 13.
§ 865. [56o.] Defendant may plead. On or before the day fixed for 
his appearance, the defendant may appear and answer or demur.-Laws 
of 1891, p. 184, § 14. 
§ 866. [561.] Jury as in other actions unleBB waived. Whenever an
issue of fact is presented by the pleadings, it must be tried. by a jury, 
unless such a jury be waived as in other cases. The jury shall be formed
in the same manner as other trial juries in the court in which the action
is pending ; and in all cases actions under this act shall take precedence 
of all other civil actions.-Laws of 1891, p. 184, § 15. 
§ 867. [562.] Plaintiff need not ·prove title. On the trial of any
proceeding for any ,forcible entry or forcible detainer, the plaintiff shall
Only be required to show, in addition to the forcible entry complained of, 
that be was peaceably in the actual possession at the time of the forcible
entry; or, in addition to a forcible detainer complained of, that he was entitled to the possession at the time of the forcible detainer.-Laws of 
1891, p. 184, § 16. , 
§ 868. [563.] Amendments to conform to proof. Where upon the
trial of any proceeding under this act, it appears from the evidence that
the defendant has been guilty either of a forcible entry, or a forcible or 
unlawful detainer, in respect of the premises described in the complaint,
and other than the offense charged in the complaint, the judge must
order that such complaint be forthwith amended to conform to such
proofs ; such amendments must be made without any imposition of terms.
No continuance shall be permitted upon account of such amendment un­
less the defendant shows to the satisfaction of the court good cause there­
for.-Laws. o/'1891, p. 185, § 17. 
Chambers v. Hoover, 3 W. T., 20-107; 13 P., 466-9<>5. 
§ 869. [564.] Judgment-Restitution, rent, damages, etc. If upon
the trial the verdict of the jury or, if the case be tried without a jury, 
the finding of the court be in favor of the plaintiff and against the
defendant, judgment shall be entered for restitution of the premises; and
if the proceeding be for unlawful detainer after neglect or failure to per­
form any condition or covenant of the lease or agreement under which
the property is held, or after default in the payment of rent, the judg­
ment shall also declare the forfeiture of the lease, agreement, or tenancy.
The jury, or the court, if the proceeding be tried without a jury, shall
also assess the damages occasioned to the plaintiff by any forcible entry,
or by any forcible or unlawful detainer, alleged in the complaint and
proved on the trial, and, if the alleged unlawful detainer be after default
in the payment of rent, find the amount of any rent due, and the judg­
ment shall be rendered against the defendant guilty of the forcible entry,
forcible detainer, or unlawful detainer, for twice. the amount of damages
thus assessed, and of the rent, if any, found due. When the proceeding
is for an unlawful detainer after default in the payment of rent, and the
lease or agreement under which the rent is payable bas not by its terms
expired, execution upon the judgment shall not be issued until the ex­
piration of five days after the entry of the judgment, within which time
the tenant or any sub-tenant, or any mortgagee of the term, or other
party interested in its continuance, may pay into court for the landlord
the amount of the judgment and costs, and thereupon the judgment
shall be satisfied and the tenant restored to his estate ; but if payment as
here provided, be not made within five days the judgment may be en­
forced for its full amount and for the possession of the premises. In all
other cases the judgment may be enforced immediately. If writ of resti­
tution shall have been executed prior to judgment no further writ or ex­
ecution for the premises shall be required.-Laws of 1891, p. 185, § 18. 
Haul and Paulson Co. v. Wilbur, 30 P. 615; 4 W., 644. . 
§ 870. [565.] Amendments as in other actions. Amendments may
be allowed by the court at any time before final judgment, upon such
terms as to the court may appear just, in the same cases and manner and 
to the same extent as in civil actions.-Laws of 1891, p. 186, § 19. 
§ 871. [566.] Practice same as in other civil actions. Except as
otherwise provided in this act, the provisions of the laws of this state
with reference to practice in civil actions are applicable to and constitute 
the rules of practice in the proceedings mentioned in this act, and the
provisions of such laws relative to new trials and appeals, except so far
as they are inconsistent with the provisions of this act, shall be held to
apply to the proceedings mentioned in this act.-Laws of 1891, p. 1861 § 20. 
§ 872. [567.] When tenant may be relieved against forfeiture. 
The court may relieve a tenant against a forfeiture of a lease and restore
him to his former estate, as in other cases provided by law, where appli­
cation for such relief is made within thirty days after the forfeiture is de­
clared by the judgment of the court, as provided in this act. The appli­
cation may be made by a tenant or sub-tenant, or a mortgagee of the
term, or any person interested in the continuance of the term. It must
be made upon petition, setting forth the facts upon which the relief is
sought, and be verified by the applicant. Notice of the application, with
a copy of the petition, must be served on the plaintiff in the judgment,
who may appear and contest the application. In no case shall the appli­
cation be granted except on condition that full payment of rent due, or
full performance of conditions of covenants stipulated, so far as the same
is practicable, be first made.-Laws of 1891, p. 186, § 21. 
§ 873. [568.] Appeal to supreme court-Bond of defendant. If 
either party feels aggrieved by the judgment he may appeal to the
supreme court, as in other civil actions : Provided, that if the defendant
appealing desires a stay of proceedings pending such appeal, he shall
execute and file a bond, with two or more sufficient sureties to be ap­
proved by the judge, conditioned to abide the order of the court on such
appeal, and to pay all rent' and other damages justly accruing to the 
plaintiff during the pendency of the appeal.-Laws of 1891, p. 187, _§ 22. 
§ 874. [569.] Appeal stays further proceedings. When the defend­
ant shall appeal, and shall file a bond as provided in the preceding sec­ 
tion, all further proceedings in the case shall be stayed until the determi­
nation of said appeal and the same has been remanded to the superior 
court for further proceed1ngs therein.-Laws of 1891, p. 187, § 23. 
§ 875. [570.] Appeal suspends restitution. If a writ of restitution
has been issued previous to the taking of an appeal by the defendant,
and said defendant shall execute and file a bond as provided in this act, 
the clerk of the court, under the direction of the judge, shall forthwith
give the appellant a certificate of the allowance of such appeal ; and
upon the service of such certificate upon the officer having such writ of
restitution the said officer shall forthwith cease all further proceedings by
virtue of such writ ; and if such writ has been completely executed, the
defendant shall be restored to the possession of the premises, and shall
remain in possession thereof until the appeal is determined.-Laws of 
1891' p. 187, § 24: 
NOTE: The following is the repealing clause to the foregoing forcible entry and
detainer act of 18g1: The act of the legislature of the state of Washington,
approved March 27, 1890, entitled, "An act relating to summary proceed­
ings for obtaining possession of real property in certain cases, and declaring
an emergency," and all acts and parts of acts, and all code provisions re­
lating to the subject matter of this act (other than provisions for criminal
prosecutions), are hereby repealed: Provided, however, That this repeal
shall in no wise affect vested rights: And provided further, That no pro­
ceeding pending in any court at the time this act shall go into effect shall
be in any wise affected by this act.-Laws of 18g1, p. 187, ~ 25. 
Approved March 7, I89I. 
§ 876. [571.] Unlawful detainer-Three days' notice. That any
person who shall, without the permission of the owner and without hav­ 
ing any color of title thereto, enter upon the lands of another, and shall
refuse to remove therefrom after three days' notice, shall be deemed guilty 
of unlawful detainer, and may be removed from such lands.-Laws of 
18911 p. 212, § I. 
§ 877 .• [572.] Complaint must include abstract of title-Answer. 
The complaint in all cases under the provision of the act* shall be upon
oath, and then [there] shall be embodied therein or [amended] [annexed] 
thereto an abstract of the plaintiffs title, and the defendant shall, in
his answer, state whether he makes any claim of title to the lands de­
scribed in the complaint, and if he makes no claim to the legal title, but
does claim a right to the possession of such lands, be shall state upon
what grounds he claims a right to such possession.-Laws of 1891, p. 
212, § 2. 
§ 878. [573.] Proof required at trial. It shall not be necessary for
the plaintiff in proceeding under this act, to allege or prove that the said
lands were, at any time, actually occupied prior to the defendant's entry 
thereupon, but it shall be sufficient to allege that he is the legal owner,
and entitled to the immediate possession thereof: Provided, That if the
defendant shall, by his answer, deny such ownership, and shall state facts
showing that 'he bas a lawful claim to the possession thereof, the cause
shall thereupon be entered for trial upon the docket of the court in all re­
spects as if the action were brought under the provisions of Chapter 
XLVI. of the code of eighteen hundred and eighty-one.-Laws of 1891,
p. 212, § 3. 
§ 879. [574.] Defendants may answer separately-Separate ver­
dict. All persons in actual possession of any portion of the several sub­ 
divisions of any section of land, according to the government surveys
thereof, may be made defendants in one action: Provided, That they
may, in their discretion, make separate answers to the complaint, and if
separate issues are joined thereupon, the same shall nevertheless be tried
as one action, but the verdict, if tried by jury, shall find separately upon
the issues so joined, and judgment shall be rendered according thereto.­ 
Laws of 1891, p. 213, § 4. Approved Marek 7, I89I. 
§ 880. [577.] Who may have partition. When several persons hold
and are in possession of real property as tenants in common, in which one
or more of them have an estate of inheritance, or for life or years, an
action may be maintained by one or more of such persons for a oartition
thereof, according to the respective rights of the persons interested therein,
and for sale of such property, or a part of it, if it appear that a partition
cannot be made without great prejudice to the owners.-Code of 
1881, § 552. 
§ 881. [578.] Complaint must state all known interests. The in­
terest of all persons in the property shall be set forth in the complaint
specifically and particularly as far as known to the plaintiff, and if one 
or more of the parties, or the share or quantity of interest of any of the
parties be unknown to the plaintiff, or be uncertain or contingent, or the
ownership of the inheritance depend upon an executory devise, or the
remainder be a contingent remainder, so that such parties canaot be
named, that fact shall be set forth in the complaint.-Code of 1881, § 553. 
§ 882. [579.] Lien creditors may be made parties at plaintiff's
option. The plaintiff may, at his option, make creditors having a lien
upon the property or any portion thereof, other than by a judgment or 
decree, defendants in the suit. When the lien is upon an undivided inter­
est or estate of any of the parties, such lien, if a partition be made, is
thenceforth a lien only on the share assigned to such party; but such
share shall be first charged with its just proportion of the costs of the 
partition, in preference to such lien.-Code of 1881, § 554. 
Part v. Parfit, 30 P., 328; 4 W., 374. 
§ 883. [580.] When service to be made by publication. If a party,
having a share or interest in, or lien upon the property, be unknown, or 
either of the known parties reside out of the territory, or cannot be found
therein, and such fact be made to appear by affidavit, the notice may
be served by publication, as in ordinary cases. When service is made by
publication, the notice must contain a brief description of the property 
which is the subject of the snit.-Code of 1881, § 556. 
§ 884. [581.] Notice directed to all parties interested. The notice
shall be directed by name to all the tenants in common, who are known, 
and in the same manner to all lien creditors who are made parties to the
suit, and generally to all persons unknown, having or claiming an inter­
est or estate in the property.-Code of 1881, § 555. 
§ 885. [582.] What answer must contain. The defendant shall set
forth in his answer, the nature and extent of his interest in the property,
and if he be a lien creditor, how such lien was created, the amount of
the debt secured thereby and remaining due, and whether such debt is
secured in any other way, and if so, the nature of such other security.­ 
Code of 1881, § 557· 
§ 886. [583.] Rights of all parties to be tried. The rights of the
several parties, plaintiffs as well as defendants, may be put in issue, 
tried and determined in such suit, and where a defendant fails to answer,
or where a sale of the property is necessary, the title shall be ascertained
by proof to the satisfaction of the court, before the decree for partition or 
sale is given.-Code of 1881, § 558. 
State v. Lichtenberg, 30 P., 659; 4 W., 555. 
§ 887. [584.] If partition impracticable, sale will be ordered. If
it be alleged in the complaint and established by evidence, or if it appear
by the evidence without such allegation in the complaint, to the satisfac­ 
tion of the court, that the property or any part of it, is so situated that
partition cannot be made without great prejudice to the owners, the court
may order a sale thereof, and for that purpose may appoint one or more
referees. Otherwise, upon the requisite proofs being made, it shall
decree a partition according to the respective rights of the parties as
ascertained by the court, and appoint three referees therefor, and shall
designate the portion to remain undivided for the owuers whose interests 
remain unknown or are not ascertained.-Code of 1881, § 559. 
§ 888. [585.] How partition is made. In making the partition, the
referees shall divide the property, and allot the several portions thereof
to the respective parties, quality and quantity relatively considered, ac­
cording to the respective rights of the parties as determined by the court,
designating the several portions by proper landmarks, and may employ a
surveyor with the necessary assistants to aid them therein. The referees
shall make a report of their proceedings, specifying therein the manner
of executing their trust, describing the property divided and the shares 
allotted to each party, with a particular description of each share.-Code 
of 1881, § 56o. 
§ 889. [586.] Decree-How far conclusive. The court may confirm
or set aside the report in whole or in part, and if necessary, appoint new
referees. Upon the report being confirmed a decree shall be entered that 
such partition be effectual forever, which decree shall be binding and con­
clusive: 
I. On all parties named therein, and their legal representatives who
have at the time any interest in the property divided, or any part thereof
as owners in fee, or as tenants for life or for years, or as entitled to the
reversion, remainder or inheritance of such property or any part thereof,
after the termination of a particular estate therein, or who by any contin­
gency may be entitled to a beneficial interest in the property, or who
have an interest in any undivided share thereof, as tenants for years or
for life; 
2. On all persons interested in the property to whom notice shall have
been given by publication ; 
3. On all other persons claiming from or through such parties or per­
sons or either of them.-Code of 1881, § 561. 
§ 890. (587.] Rights of tenants not affected-Title determined
only between parties. Such decree and partition shall not affect any
tenants for years or for life, of the whole of the property which is the
subject of partition, nor shall such decree and partition preclude any per­ 
sons, except such as are specified in the last section, from claiming title to
the property in question, or from controverting the title of the parties be­
tween whom the partition shall have been made.-Coa'e of 1881, § 562. 
§ 891. (588.] Expenses allowed as costs against plaintiff. The ex­
penses of the referees, including those of a surveyor and his assistants,
when employed, shall be ascertained and allowed by the court, and the 
amount thereof, together with the fees allowed by law to the referees,
shall be paid by the plaintiff, and may beallowedascosts.-Coa'e of 1881, 
§ 563. 
§ 892. [589.] Decree of sale if partition impracticable. If the
referees report to the court that the property, of which partition shall.
have been decreed, or any separate portion thereof, is so situated that a 
partition thereof cannot be made without great prejudice to the owners,
and the court is satisfied that such report is correct, it may thereupon by
an order, direct the referees to sell the property or separate portion there­ 
of. - Code oj 1881, § 564. 
§ 893. (590.] Estate for life may be allotted in land unsold. When
a part of the property only is ordered to be sold, if there be an estate for
life or years in an undivided share of the property, the whole of such 
estate may be set off in any part of the property not ordered sold. -Code 
of 1881, § 565. 
§ 894. (591.] Lien creditors to be made parties before sale. Be­
fore making an order of sale, if lien creditors, other than those by judg­ 
ment or· (degree] [decree] have not been made parties, the court, on
motion of either party, shall order the plaintiff to file a supplemental
complaint, making such creditors defendants.-Code of 1881, § 566. 
§ 895. (592.] Liens to be adjudicated. If an order of sale be made
before the distribution of the proceeds thereof, the plaintiff shall produce
to the court the certificate of the auditor of the county where the prop­ 
erty is situated, showing the liens remaining unsatisfied, if any, by judg­
ment or decree upon the property or any portion thereof and unless he
do so the court shall order a referee to ascertain them.-Coa'e of 1881, 
§ 567.
§ 896. (593.] Referee shall be appointed to ascertain liens. If it 
appear by such certificate or reference in -case the certificate is not pro­
duced, that any such liens exist, the court shall appoint a referee to ascer­
tain what amount remains due thereon or secured thereby respectively,
and the order of priority in which they are entitled to be paid out of the 
property~-Code of 1881, § 568. 
§ 897. (594.] Twenty day.a notice to lien holders to prove their
liens. The plaintiff must cause a notice to be served at least twenty 
days before the time for appearance on each person having such lien by
judgment or decree, to appear before the referee at a specified time and
place, to make proof by his own affidavit or otherwise,. of the true
amount due or to become due, contingently or absolutely on his judg­ 
ment or decree.-Code of 1881, § 569. 
§ 898. (595.] Referees shall report as to liens. The referee shall re­
ceive the evidence and report the names of the creditors whose liens are
established, the amounts due thereon, or secured thereby, and their pri­ 
ority respectively, and whether contingent or absolute. He shall attach
to his report the proof of service of the notices and the .evidence before 
. him.-Code of 1881, § 570. 
§ 899. (596.] Exceptions to referee's report-Publication against
absent lien holders. The report of the referee may be excepted to by
either party: to the suit, or to the proceedings before the referee, in like
manner and with like effect as in ordinary cases. If a lien creditor be 
-absent from the territory, or his residence therein be unknown, and that
fact appear by affidavit, the court or judge thereof may by order direct
that service of the notice may be made upon his agent or attorney of
record, or by publication thereof, for such time and in such manner as the 
order may prescribe.-Code of 1881, § 571. 
§ goo. (597.] Order confirming report, how far conclusive. If the
report of the referee be confirmed, the order of confirmation is binding 
and conclusive upon all parties to the suit, and upon the lien creditors
who have been duly served with the notice to appear before the referee, 
as provided in section 569 [897].-Code of 1881, § 572.
§ 901. [598.] Application of proceeds of sale. The proceeds of the 
sale of the encumbered property shall be distributed by the decree of the
court, as follows : 
I. To pay its just proportion of the general costs of the suit;' 
2. To pay the costs of the reference ;
3. To satisfy the several liens in their order of priority, by payment of 
the sums due, and to become due, according to the decree;
4. The residue among the owners of the property sold, according to 
their respective shares.-Code of 1881, § 573. 
§ 902. (599.] Other securities may be first exhausted. Whenever
any party to the suit, who holds a lien upon the property or any part 
thereof, has other securities for the payment of the amount of such lien,
the court may in its discretion, order such [sureties] [secun·ties] to be ex­
hausted before a distribution of the proceeds of sale, or may order a just
deduction to be made from the amount of the lien on the property on
account thereof.-Code of 1881, § 574. 
§ 903. [600.] Adjustment of liens not to delay sale. The proceed­
ings to ascertain the amount of the liens, and to determine their priority 
as above provided, or those hereinafter authorized to determine the rights
of parties to funds paid into court, shall not delay the sale, nor affect any
other party, whose rights are not involved in such proceedings.-Code of 
1881, § 575. 
§ 904. (601.] Proceeds of sale to be deposited in court until dis­
tributed. The proceeds of sale, and the securities taken by the referees, 
or any part thereof, shall be ~istributed by them to the persons entitled
thereto, whenever the court so directs. But if no such direction be given,
all such proceeds and securities shall be paid into court, or deposited as 
directed by the court.-Code of 1881, § 576.
§ 905. [602.] Action may be continued after sale to determine 
rights of parties. When the proceeds of sale of any shares or parcel
belonging to persons who are parties to the suit and who are . known, are 
paid into court, the suit may be continued as between such parties, for
the determination of their respective claims thereto, which shall be ascer­
tained and adjudged by the court. Further testimony may be taken in
court, or by a referee at the discretion of the court, and the court may, if
necessary, require such parties to present the facts or law in controversy, 
by pleadings as in an original suit.-Code of 1881, § 577. 
§ 9o6. [6o3.] Sales must be made by auction. All sales of real
property made by the referees shall be made by public auction, to the 
highest bidder. in the manner required for the sale of real property on
execution. The notice shall state the terms of sale, and if the property,
or any part of it is to be sold, subject to a prior estate, charge or lien,
that shall be stated in the notice.-Code of 1881, § 578. · 
§ 907. [6o4.] Terms of sale to be directed by court. The court
shall, in the order of sale, direct the terms of credit which may be al­ 
lowed for the purchase money of any portion of the premises, of which it
may direct a sale on credit; and for that portion of which the purchase
money is required by the provisions hereinafter contained, to be invested
for the benefit of unknown owners, infants or parties out of the territory. 
-Code of 1881, § 579· 
§ 908. [605.] Securities may be taken. The referees may take sepa­
rate mortgages, and other securities for the whole, or convenient portions
of the purchase money, of such parts of the property as are directed by
the court to be sold on credit, in the name of the clerk of the court, and
his successors in office ; and for the shares of any known owner of full
age, in the name of such owner.-Code of 1881, § 580. 
§ 909. [606.] When life estates may be sold. When the estate of
any tenant for life or years, in any undivided part of the property in 
question, shall have been admitted by the parties, or ascertained by the
court to be existing at the time of the order of sale, and the person entitled to such estate shall have been made a party to the suit, such estate
may be first set off out of any part of the property, and a sale made of
such parcel, subject to the prior unsold estate of such tenant therein ; but
if in the judgment of the court, a due regard to the interest of all the
parties require that such estate be also sold, the sale may be so ordered.­
Code of 1881, § 581. 
§ 910. [6o7.] Tenant may accept gross sum in lieu of estate sold. 
Any person entitled to an estate for life or years in any undivided part of
the property, whose estate shall have been sold, shall be entitled to re­
ceive such sum in gross as may be deemed a reasonable satisfaction for
such estate, and which the person so entitled shall consent to accept in­
stead thereof, by an instrument duly acknowledged and filed with the
clerk.-Code of 1881, § ,c;82. 
§ 911. [6o8.] Oourt may determine sum to be paid tenants. If
such consent be not given. as provided in the last section, before the re­ 
port of sale, the court shall ascertain and determine what proportion of
the proceeds of the salt. after deducting expenses, will be a just and
reasonable sum to be invested for the benefit of the person entitled to such
estate for life or years, and shall order the same to be deposited in court 
for that purpose.-Code of 1881, § 583. 
§ 912. [009.] Court shall protect rights of unknown tenants. rf
the persons entitled to such estate, for life or years, be unknown, the 
court shall provide for the protection of their rights in the same manner,
as far as may be, as if they were known and bad appeared.-Code of
1881, § 584. [Enrolled copy]: The proportion of the proceeds of the
sale to be invested, as provided in the preceding section, shall be aseer­
tained and determined in the several cases as follows : 
§ 913. [610.] Future estates to be protected. In all cases of sales
in partition, when it appears that a married woman has an inchoate
right of dower in any of the property sold or, that any person has a 
vested or contingent future right or estate therein, the court shall ascer­
tain and settle the proportionate value of such inchoate, contingent or
vested right or estate, and shall direct such proportion of the proceeds
of sale to be invested, secured, or paid over in such manner as to protect
the rights and interests of the parties.-Code of 1881, § 585. 
§ 914. [er r.] Terms of sale must be made known. In all cases of
sales of property the terms shall be made known at the time, and if the
premises consist of distinct farms or lots, they shall be sold separately, or 
otherwise, if the court so directs.-Code of 1881, § .586. 
§ 915. [612:J Referees and guardians must not be purchasers. 
Neither of the referees, nor any person for the benefit of either of them,
shall be interested in any purchase, nor shall the guardian of an infant 
be an interested party in the purchase of any real property being the sub­
ject of the suit, except for the benefit of the infant. All sales contrary 
to the provisions of this section shall be void.-Code of 1881, § 587. 
§ 916. [613.J Referees' report of sale. After completing the sale,
the referees shall report the same to the court, with a description of the 
different parcels of land sold to each purchaser, the name of the pur­
chaser, the price paid or secured, the terms and conditions of the sale,
and the securities, if any, taken. The report shall be filed with the 
elerk.-Code of 1881, § 588. 
§ 91 7. [ 614.] Exceptions to report of sale-Conveyance by referee. 
The report of sale may be excepted to in writing by any party entitled to
a share of the proceeds. If the sale be confirmed, the order of confirma­
tion shall direct the referees to execute conveyance and take securities
pursuant to such sale.-Code of 1881, § 589. 
§ 918. [615.] When a party is purchaser he may receipt to ref­
eree for his share. When a party entitled to a share of the property,
or an encumbrancer entitled to have his lien paid out of the sale, be­
comes a purchaser, the referees may take his receipt for so much of the
proceeds of the sale as belong to him.-Code of 1881, § 590. 
§ 919. [616.] Share of unknown owner to be invested. Where
there are proceeds of sale belonging to an unknown owner, or to a person
without the territory who has no legal representative within it, or when 
there are proceeds arising from the sale of an estate subject to the prior
estate of a tenant for life or years, which are paid into the court or other­
wise deposited by order of the court, the same shall be invested in secur­
ities on interest for the benefit of the persons entitled tbereto.-Code OJ 
1881, § 591. 
§ 920. [617.] Investment to be in name of clerk. When the secu­
rity for the proceeds of sale is taken, or when an investment of any sue h 
proceeds is made, it shall be done, except as herein otherwise provided , 
in the name of the clerk of the court and his successors in office, who
shall hold the same for the use and benefit of the parties interested, sub­
ject to the order of the court.--Code of 1881, § 592. 
§ 921. [618.] When securities to be delivered. When security is
taken by the referees on a sale, and the parties interested in such secur­
ity by an instrument in writing under their hands, delivered to the ref­ 
erees, agree upon the share and proportions to which they are respect­
ively entitled, or when shares and proportions have been previously ad­
judged by the court, such securities shall be taken in the names of and
payable to the parties respectively entitled thereto, and shall be delivered
to such parties upon their receipt therefor. Such agreement and receipt
shall be returned and filed with the clerk.-Code of 1881, § 593. 
§ 922~ [619.J Clerk to receive interest on investments, re-invest,
etc. The clerk in whose name a security is taken, or by whom an invest­ 
ment is made, and his successors in office, shall receive the interest and
principal as it becomes due, and apply and invest the same as the court
may direct, and shall file in his office all securities taken and keep an
account in a book provided and kept for that purpose in the clerk's office.
free for inspection by all persons, of investments and moneys received by
him thereon, and the disposition thereof.-Code of 1881, § 594. 
§ 923. [620.] Owelty of partition, when allowed. When it appears
that partition cannot be made equal between the parties according to their
respective rights, without prejudice to the rights and interests of some of
them, the court may adjudge compensation to be made by one party to
another on account of the inequality of partition; but such compensa­
tion shall not be required to be made to others by owners unknown, nor
by infants, unless in the case of an infant it appear that he has personal .
property sufficient for that purpose, and that his interest will be promoted
thereby.-Code of 1881, § 595. 
§ 924. [621.] Infant's share may be paid to guardian. When the
share of an infant is sold, the proceeds of the sale may be paid by the 
referees making the sale, to his general guardian, or the special guardian
appointed for him in the suit, upon giving the security required by law, 
or directed by order of the court.-Code of 1881, § 596.
925. [622.] Same as to wards, insane penons, etc. The guardian who 
may be entitled to the custody and management of the estate of an in­
sane person, or other person adjudged incapable of conducting his own
affairs, whose interests in real property shall have been sold, may receive
in behalf of such person his share of the proceeds of such real property
from the referees, on executing a bond with sufficient sureties, approved
by the judge of the court, conditioned that he faithfully discharge the
trust reposed in him, and will render a true and just account to the per­
son entitled, or to his legal representative.--Code of 18811 § 597. 
§ 926. [623.] Guardian may consent to partition. The general
guardian of an infant, and the guardian entitled to the custody and man­ 
agement of the estate of an insane person, or other person adjudged in­
capable of conducting his own affairs, who is interested in real estate
held in common or in any other manner, so as to authorize his being made
a party to an action for the partition thereof, may consent to a partition
without suit and agree upon the share to be set off to such infant or
other person entitled, and may execute a release in his behalf to the 
owners of the shares or parts to which they may respectively be entitled,
and upon an order of the court.-Code ef 1881, § 598. 
§ 927. [624.] In what cases costs made a lien on the lands. The
costs of partition, including fees of referees and other disbursements,
shall be paid by the parties respectively entitled to share in the lands
divided, in proportion to their respective interests therein, and may be 
included and specified in the decree. In that case there shall be a lien on
the several shares, and the decree may be enforced by execution against
the parties separately. 'When, however, a litigation arises between some 
of the parties only, the court may require the expense of such litigation
to be paid by the parties thereto, or any of them.-Code of 1881, § 599. 
FORECLOSURE OF MORTGAGES.
i 928. Mortgage may be foreclosed for default I 935. Forec108ure and other remedy not ai- 
m any condition-Venue of action. lowed at same time. 
I 929. Remedy confined to mortgaged prop- I 936. Foreclosure for unpaid installments sua-
erty, unle18 express agreement. pended if same are paid. 
i 930. Judgment shall order premises sold. i 937. Property must be sold in parcels if 
i 931. Judgment for deficiency under expreaa practicable.
agreement. i 9J8. Application of proceeds to installments 
I 93:z. Form of such judgments. due-Discount for amount undue. 
i 933. Mortgage execution-Levy for defi- i 939- Foreclosure of chattel mortgages.
ciency. i 940. Mortgagee may proceed on mortgage or 
i 934. But two weeks' notice required for de- separate instrument-Deficiency judg-
ficiency sale. ment. 
§ 928. [625.] Mortgage may be foreclosed for default in any con­
dition. When default is made in the performance of any condition con­
tained in a mortgage, the mortgagee or bis assigns may proceed in the
district court of the district or county where the land, or some part thereof, 
lies, to foreclose the equity of redemption contained in the mortgage.­
Code ef 1881, § 609. 
Parker v. Dacres, 2 W. T., 439; 7 P., 893. 
§ 929. [626.] Remedy confined to mortgaged property, unless ex­
press agreement. When there is no express agreement in the mortgage
nor any separate instrument given for the payment of the sum secured 
thereby, the remedy of the mortgagee shall be confined to the property
mortgaged. -Code of 1881, § 610 . 
. § 930. [627.] Judgment shall order premises sold. In rendering
judgment of foreclosure the court shall order the mortgaged premises, or 
so much thereof as may be necessary, to be sold to satisfy the mortgage
and costs of the action. The payment of the mortgage debt, with interest
and costs at any time before sale, shall satisfy the judgment.-C-ode of 
1881, § 611. 
CHAPTER LXXII. 
§ 931. [628.] Judgment for deficiency under express agreement. 
When there is an express agreement for the payment of the sum of money
secured contained in the mortgage or any separate instrument, the court
shall direct in the decree of foreclosure that the balance due on the mort­
gage, and costs which may remain unsatisfied after the sale of the mort­
gaged premises, shall be satisfied from any property of the mortgage
debtor.-Code ef 1881, § 612. 
§ 932. [629.] Porm of such judgments. Judgments over for any de­
ficiency remaining unsatisfied after application of the proceeds of sale of
mortgaged property, either real or personal, shall be similar in all re­
spects to other judgments for the recovery of money, and may be made a 
lien upon the property of a judgment debtor as other judgments, and the
collections thereof enforced in the same manner.-Code of 1881, § 622. 
§ 933. [630.] Mortgage execution-Levy for deficiency. The de­ 
cree may be enforced by execution, as an ordinary decree for the payment 
of money. The execution shall contain a description of the mortgaged
property. The sheriff shall indorse upon the execution the time when
he receives it, and he shall thereupon forthwith proceed to sell the mort­
gaged premises, or so much thereof as may be necessary to satisfy the
judgment, interest, and costs, upon giving the notice prescribed in section
three hundred and fifty-nine, [595] relating to sales of property under ex­
ecution. And if any part of the judgment, interest and costs, remain un­
satisfied, the sheriff shall forthwith proceed to levy upon any property of
the defendant, not exempt from execution, and all subsequent proceed­
ings under said execution shall conform, except as herein provided, to
the provisions regulating sales of property upon executions. -Code of 
1881, § 613. 
Parker v. Dacres, 24 P., 192; 1 W., 190. 
§ 934. [631.] But two weeks' notice required for deficiency sale. 
When sales of other property not embraced in the mortgage or decree of
sale are made under the execution to satisfy any deficiency remaining
due upon judgment, two weeks' publication of notice of such sale shall 
be sufficient. Such notice shall be published in a newspaper printed in
the district or county where the property is situated, and 'if there be no
newspaper published therein, then in the most convenient newspaper hav­
ing a circulation in said district or county .-Code of 188 I, § 621. 
§ 935. [632.] Poreclosure and other remedy not allowed at same
time. The plaintiff shall not proceed to foreclose his mortgage while he 
is prosecuting any other action for the same debt or matter which is
secured by the mortgage, or while he is seeking to obtain execution of
any judgment in such other action ; nor shall he prosecute any other ac­
tion for the same matter while he is foreclosing his mortgage or prosecut­
ing a judgment of foreclosure.-Code of 1881, § 614. 
Hays v. Miller, 1 W. T., 143. Frank v. Pickle, 2 W. T., 55; 3 P., 584.
§ 936. [633.] Foreclosure for unpaid installments suspended if 
same are paid. Whenever a complaint is filed for the foreclosure of a 
mortgage upon which there shall be due any interest or installment of
the principal, and there are other installments not due, if the defendant
pay into the court the principal and interest due, with costs, at any time
before the final judgment, proceedings thereon shall be stayed, subject to
be enforced upon a subsequent default in the payment of any installment
of the principal or interest thereafter becoming due. In the final judg­
ment, the court shall direct at what time and upon what default any sub­
sequent execution shall issue.--Code of 1881, § 615. 
§ 937. [634.] Property must be sold In parcels, if practicable. In
such cases, after final judgment, the court shall ascertain whether the 
property can be sold in parcels, and if it can be done without injury to
the interests of the parties, the court shall direct so much only of the 
premises to be sold, as will be sufficient to pay the amount then due on
the mortgage with costs, and the judgment shall remain and be enforced
upon any subsequent default, unless the amount due shall be paid before 
-.. execution of the judgment is perfected. -Code of 1881, § 616. 
§ 938. (635.] Application of proceeds to installments due-Dis­
count for amount undue. If the mortgaged premises cannot be sold in
parcels, the court shall order the whole to be sold, and the proceeds of
the sale sliall be applied first to the payment of the principal due, inter­
est and costs, and then to the residue secured by the mortgage and not 
due; and if the residue do not bear interest, a deduction shall be made
therefrom by discounting the legal interest ; and in all cases where the
proceeds of the sale shall be more than sufficient to pay the amount due
and costs, the surplus shall be paid to the mortgage debtor, his heirs and
assigns.-Code of 1881, § 617. 
§ 939. [636.] l'oreclosure of chattel mortgages. The provisions
herein contained, so far as the same shall be applicable, shall govern in
actions for the foreclosure of chattel mortgages or bills of sale creating 
liens on personal property.-Code of 1881, § 618. 
Hays v. Miller, I W. T., 143. Byrd v. Forbs, 3 W. T., 318; 13 P., 715. Frank v.
Pickle; 2 W. T., 55; 3 P., 584. Ephraim v. Kelleher, 4 W., 249; 29 P., g85. 
§ 940. (637.] Mortgagee may proceed on mortgage or separate in­
strument-Deficiency judgment. The mortgagee or holder of the lien
may proceed upon his mortgage or lien, [or] if there be a separate obliga­
tion in writing to pay the same, secured by said mortgage or lien, he 
may bring suit upon such separate promise. When he proceeds on the
mortgage, if there be a specific agreement therein contained for the pay­
ment of a certain sum, or there is a separate obligation for the said sum,
in addition to a decree of sale of mortgaged property, judgment shall be
rendered for the amount due upon said mortgage or other instrument, the
payment of which is thereby secured. The decree shall direct the sale
of the mortgaged property, and if the proceeds of said sale be insufficient
under the execution, the sheriff is authorized to levy upon and sell other
property of the mortgage debtor, not exempt from execution, for the sum
remaining unsatisfied.-Code of 1881, § 619. 
Byrd v. Forbes, 3 W. T., 318; 13 P., 715. Frank v. Pickle, 2 W. T., 55; 3 P.,
584. Hays v. Miller, I W. T., 143. 
CHAPTER LXXIII. 
WASTE, TRESPASS AND NUISANCES. 
i 941. Waste to be actionable as other wrongs. i 946. Actionable nuisances defined. 
I 942. Party injured may bring action-Treble i 947. Who may bring action for nuisances.
damages, forfeiture, etc. i 948. Warrant to abate nuisance-Costs. 
i 943. Treble damages for willful trespass, against defendant. 
i 944- Single damages for casual trcspu9. i 949. Defendant may abate nuisance and 
i 945. Injunctions to prevent waste. stay warrant by bond. 
§ 941. [659.] Waste to be actionable as other wrongs. Wrongs
heretofore remediable by action of waste shall be subjects of actions as 
other wrongs.-Code of 1881, ~ 600. 
§ 942. [660.] Party injured may bring action-Treble damages,
forfeiture, etc. If a guardian, tenant in severalty or in common, for life
or for years, of real property, commit waste thereon, any person injured 
thereby may maintain an action at law for damages therefor against such
guardian or tenant ; in which action there may be judgment for treble
damages, forfeiture of the estate of the party committing or permitting
the waste, and of eviction from the property. But judgment of forfeit­
ure and eviction shall only be given in favor of the person entitled to the
reversion against the tenant in possession, 'when the injury to the estate
in reversion is determined in the action, to be equal to the value of the
tenant's estate or unexpired term, or· to have been done or suffered in
malice.-Code of 1881, § 6o1. 
McLeod v. Bllis," 2 W., 120; 26 P., 77. 
§ 943. (661.] Treble damages for willful trespass. Whenever any
person shall cut down, girdle or otherwise injure, or carry off any tree, 
timber or shrub on the land of another person, or on the street or high­
way in front of any person's house, village, town or city lot, or cultivated
grounds, or on the commons or public grounds of any village, town or
city, or on the street or highway in front thereof, without lawful authority,
in an action by such person, village, town or city against the person com­
mitting such trespasses, or any of them, if judgment be given for the
plaintiff, it shall be given for treble the amount of damages claimed or
assessed therefor, as the case maybe.-Coa'e of 1881, § 602. 
McLeod v. Ellis, 26 P., 77; 2 W., 120. 
§ 944. (662.] Single damages for casual trespass. If upon trial of
such action it shall appear that the trespass was casual or involuntary, or
that the defendant had probable cause to believe that the land on which
such trespass was committed was his own, or that of the person in whose
service or by whose direction the act was done, or that such tree or tim­
ber was taken from uninclosed woodlands, for the purpose of repairing any
public highway or bridge upon the land, or adjoining it, judgment shall
only be given for single damages.-Code of 1881, § 6o3. 
§ 945. (663.] Injunctions to prevent waste. When any two or more
persons are opposing claimants under the laws of the United States to any 
land in this territory, and one is threatening to commit upon such land
waste which tends materially to lessen the value of the inheritance and
which cannot be compensated by damages and there is imminent danger
that unless restrained such waste will be committed, the party, on filing
his complaint and satisfying the court or judge of the existence of the
facts, may have an injunction to restrain the adverse party. In all cases
he shall give notice and bond as is provided in other cases where injunc­
tion is granted, and the injunction when granted shall be set aside or mod­
ified as is provided generally for injunction and restraining orders.-Code 
o/ 1881, § 6o4. 
· Arment v. Hensel, 31 P., 464,
§ 946. (664.] Actionable nuisances defined. The obstruction of any 
highway or the closing of the channel of any stream used for boating or
rafting logs, lumber or timber, or whatever is injurious to health or inde­
cent or offensive to the senses, or a,n obstruction to the free use of prop­
erty, so as to essentially interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of the
life and property, is a nuisance, and the subject of an action for damages
and other and. further relief.-Code of 1881, § 6o5. 
§ 947. (665.] Whomaybringactionfornuisance. Such action may 
be brought by any person whose property is injuriously affected or whose 
personal enjoyment is lessened by the nuisance. If judgment be given
for the plaintiff in such action, he may in addition to the execution to en­
force the same, on motion, have an order allowing a warrant to issue to
the· sheriff to abate such nuisance. Such motion shall be allowed, of
course, unless it appear on the hearing that the nuisance has ceased or
that such remedy is inadequate to abate or prevent the continuance of
the nuisance, in which latter case the plaintiff may have the defendant
enjoined.-Laws of 1891, p. 89, § r, 
N. P. R.R. Co. v. Whalen, 3 W. T., 452; 17 P., 8go. 
§ 948. [6(>6.] Warrant to abate nuisance-Coats against defendant. 
If the order be made, the clerk shall thereafter, at any time within six
months, when requested bv the plaintiff, issue such warrant directed to
the sheriff, requiring him forthwith to abate the nuisance at the expense
of the defendant, and return the warrant as soon thereafter as may be,
with his proceedings indorsed thereon. The expenses of abating the nui­
sance may be levied by the sheriff on the property of the defendan t, and
in this respect the warrant is to be deemed an execution against property.
-Code.of 1881, § 6o7. 
Coffer v. Tessitan, 25 P., 632; I W., 325. 
§ 949. [667.] Defendant may abate nuisance and stay warrant by
bond. At any time before the order is made or the warrant issues, the
defendant may, on motion to the court or judge thereof have an order 
to stay the issue of such warrant for such period as may be necessary,
not exceeding six months, to allow the defendant to abate the nuisance
himself, upon his giving bond to the plaintiff in a sufficient amount with
one or more sureties, to the satisfaction of the court or judge thereof, that
he will abate it within the time and in the manner specified in such
order. The sureties shall justify as bail upon arrest. If the defendant
fails to abate such nuisance within the time specified, the warrant for the
abatement of the nuisance may issue as if the same had not been stayed.
=-Code of 1881, § 6o8. 
I 952. Procedure same as in other actions.
I 950. X.O.t boundaries may be established by 
action. 
8 951. co:h~1:8J:i:~ may be appointed- 
§ 950. [668.] Lost boundaries may be established by action. That
whenever the boundaries of lands between two or more adjoining pro­ 
prietors shall have been lost, or by time, accident or other cause, shall
have become obscure, or uncertain, and the adjoining proprietors cannot
agree to establish the same, one or more of said adjoining proprietors may
bring his civil action in equity, in the district court for the county in which
such lands, or part of them, are situated, and such district court, as a
court of equity, may upon such complaint, order such lost or uncertain
boundaries to be erected and established and properly marked.-Laws of 
1885-6, p. 104, § I. 
' 
CHAPTER LXXIV. 
PROCEEDINGS TO JCSTABLISH BOUNDARIJCS TO LAND. 
§ 951. [669.] Commissioners may be appointed-Their duties. 
Said court may, in its discretion appoint commissioners, not exceeding
three competent and disinterested persons, one or more of whom shall be 
practical surveyors, residents of the territory, which commissioners shall
be, before entering upon their duties, duly sworn to perform their said
duties faithfully, and the said commissioners shall thereupon survey, erect,
establish and properly mark said boundaries, and return to the court a
plat of said survey, and the field-notes thereof, together with their report.
Said report shall be advisory and either party may except thereto, in the
same manner as to a report of referees.-Laws of 1885-6, p. 105, § 2. 
§ 952. (670.] Procedure same as in other actions. That. the pro­
ceedings shall be conducted as other civil actions, and the court on final
decree shall apportion the costs of the proceedings equitably, and the costs 
so apportioned shall be a lien upon said lands, severally, as against any
transfer or encumbrance made of, or attaching to said lands, from the
time of the filing the complaint : Provided, A notice of lis J>endens is filed in
the auditor's office of the proper county, in accordance with law.-Laws 
of 1885-6, p. 105, § 3. 
APPROPRIATION OF PROPltRTY BY PRIV ATlt CORPORATIONS. 
i 953. Proceedings commenced by petition. i g63. Right-of-way through defiles to be med 
i 954. Notice to bring parties intocourt-How in common.
ICt'Ved. f 964. Entry allowed for purpose of suney 
i 955. Proceedings may be adjourned. etc. 
f 956. Appropriation must be neceasary-call- i g65. Amount of property and for what uleS
ing jury. appropriated. 
i 957. Trial conducted as in other actions. f g66. Power to cross, intel"9ect and unite rail- 
f 9s8, Judgment and decree of appropriation. way&--Trial in such cases. 
I 959. Amount of verdict to be paid into court f g67. Railway alonir rivers, etc.
-Shall remain there if appeal taken. I g68. Grade and location may be changed. 
i g6o. When money shall be paid to claimants. f 967. When public road or street may be 
I g61. Either party may appeal within thirty taken.
days. i 970, Authorities may designate what streets 
f g62. Bond to continue work pending appeal. shall be taken. 
§ 953. (648.] Proceedings commenced by petition. Any corpora­
tion authorized by law to appropriate land, real estate, premises or other
property for right-of-way or any other corporate purposes, may present 
to the superior court of the county in which any land, real estate, prem­
ises or other property sought to be appropriated shall be situated, or to
the judge of such superior court in any county where he has jurisdiction
or is holding court, a petition in which the land, real estate, premises or
other property sought to be appropriated shall be described with reasona­
ble certainty, and setting forth the name of each and every owner, encum­
brancer, or other person or party interested in the same, or any part there­
of, so far as the same can be ascertained from the public records, the ob­
ject for which the land is sought to be appropriated, and praying that a
jury be impaneled to ascertain and determine the compensation to be made
in money, irrespective of any benefit from any improvement proposed by
such corporation, to such owner or owners, respectively, and to all ten­
ants; cncumbrancers, and others interested, for the taking or injuriously
affecting such lands, real estate, premises or other property, or in case a
jury be waived, as in other civil cases in courts of record in the manner
prescribed by law, then that the compensation to be made, as aforesaid.
be ascertained and determined by the court, or judge thereof.-Ltnl)s of 
1890, p. 294, § I. 
CHAPTER LXXV. 
§ 954. (649.] Notice to bring parties into court-Bow served. A
notice, stating briefly the objects of the petition, and containing a de­ 
scription of the land, real estate, premises or property sought to be ap­
propriated, and stating the time and place, when and where thesame will
be presented to the court, or the judge thereof, shall be served on each
and every person named therein as owner, encumbrancer, tenant, or other­
wise interested therein, at least ten days previous to the time designated
in such notice for the presentation of such petition. Such service shall
be made by delivering a copy of such notice to each of the persons or par­
ties so named therein, if a resident of the state; or, in case of the ab­
sence of such person or party from his or her usual place of abode, by
leaving a copy of such notice at his or her usual place of abode: or, in
case of a foreign corporation, at its principal place of business in this state,
with some person of more than sixteen years of age. In case of domestic
corporations, such service shall be made upon the president, secretary or
other director or trustee of such corporation. In case of minors on their
guardians, or in case no guardian shall have been appointed, then on the
person who has the care and custody of such minor; in case of idiots,
lunatics or distracted persons, on their guardian, or in case no guardian
shall have been appointed, then on the person in whose care or charge
they are found. In case the land, real estate, premises or other property
sought to be appropriated is state, school or county land, the notice shall
be served on the auditor of the county in which the land, real estate,
premises or other property sought to be appropriated is situated. In all
cases where the owner or person claiming an interest in such real or other
property, is a non-resident of this state, or where the residence of such
owner or person is unknown, and an affidavit of the agent or attorney of 
the corporation shall be filed that such owner or person is a non-resident
of this state, or that after diligent inquiry his residence is 'unknown, or
cannot be ascertained by such deponent, service may be made by publica­
tion thereof in any newspaper published in the county where such lands
are situated once a week for two successive weeks ; and in case no news­
paper is published in said county, then such publication may be had in a
newspaper published in the county nearest to the county in which lies the 
. land sought to be appropriated. And such publication shall be deemed
service upon each of such non-resident person or persons whose residence
is unknown. Such notice shall be signed by the president, manager, sec­
retary or attorney of the corporation ; and in case the proceedings pro­
vided for in this act are instituted by the owner or any other person or
party interested in the land, real estate, or other property sought to be
appropriated, then such notice shall be signed by such owner, person or
party interested, or his, her or its attorney. Such notice may be served
by any competent person over twenty-one years of age. Due proof of
the service of such notice by affidavit of the person serving the same, or
by the printer's affidavit of publication, shall be filed with the clerk of
such superior court before or at the time of the presentation of such peti­
tion. Want of service of such notice shall render the subsequent pro­
ceedings void as to the person not served, but all persons or parties having
been served with notice as herein provided, either by publication or other- 
wise, shall be bound by the subsequent proceedings. In all other cases
not otherwise provided for, service of notices, orders and other papers in
the proceedings authorized by this act may be made as the superior court
or the judge thereof may direct.-Laws of 1890, p. 295, § 2. 
§ 955. (650.] Proceedings may be adjourned. The court or judge
may, upon application of the petitioner or of any owner or party inter­ 
ested, for reasonable cause, adjourn the proceedings from time to time,
and may order new or further notice to be given to any party whose in­
terest may be affected.-Laws of 1890, p. 297, § 3. 
§ 956. (651.] Appropriation must be necessary-Calling jury. 
At the time and place appointed for hearing said petition, or to which
the same may have been adjourned, if the court or judge thereof shall
have satisfactory proof that all parties interested in the land, real estate,
premises or other property described in said petition, have been duly
served with said notice as above prescribed, and shall be further satisfied
by competent proof that the contemplated use for which the land, real
estate, premises or other property sought to be appropriated is really a
public use and that the public interest requires the prosecution of such
enterprise, and that the land, real estate, premises or other property
sought to be appropriated are required and necessary for the purposes of
such enterprise, the court or judge thereof may make an order, to be
recorded in the minutes of said court, directing the sheriff to summon
from the citizens of the county in which any laud, real estate, premises
or other property sought to be appropriated shall be situated, as many
qualified persons as may be necessary in order to form a jury of twelve
persons, unless the parties to the proceedings consent to a less number
(such number to be not less than three); and such consent shall be
entered by the clerk in the minutes of the trial. If necessary to com­
plete the jury, the sheriff, under direction of the court or judge thereof,
shall summon as many qualified persons as may be required to complete
the jury from the by-standers, citizens of the county where the land, 
real estate, premises or other property is situated.-Laws of 1890, p. 297, 
§ 4· 
§ 957. (652.] Trial conducted as in other civil actions. A judge
of the superior court shall preside at the trial which shall be held at such
time as the court or the judge thereof may direct, at the courthouse in 
the county where the land, real estate, premises, or other property sought
to be appropriated is situated, and the jurors at such trial shall make in
each case a separate assessment of damages which shall result to any
person, corporation or company, or to the state, or to any county, by
reason of the appropriation and use of such land, real estate, premises or
other property by such corporation as aforesaid, for any and all corporate
purposes, and shall ascertain, determine and award the amount of dam­
ages to be paid to said owner or owners respectively, and to all tenants,
encumbrancers and others interested, for the taking or injuriously affect­
ing such land, real estate, premises or other property for the purpose of
such enterprise, irrespective of any benefi_t from any improvement pro­
posed by such corporation. Upon the trial, witnesses may be examined
in behalf of either party to the proceedings as in civil actions ; and a wit­
ness served with a subpoena in such proceedings shall be punished for
failure to appear at such trial, or for perjury, as upon a trial of a civil ac­
tion. Upon the verdict of the jury, judgment shall be entered for the 
amount of the damages awarded to such owner or owners respectively,
and to all tenants, encumbrancers and others interested, for the taking or
injuriously affecting such land, real estate, premises or other property.
In case a jury is waived as in civil cases in courts of record in the man­
ner prescribed by law, the compensation to. be paid for the property
sought to be appropriated shall be ascertained and determined by the
court or the judge thereof, and the proceedings shall be the same as in
trials of an issue of fact by the court.-Laws of 1890, p. 297, § 5. 
Seattle & Montana Ry. Co. v. Scheike, 3 W.,. 625; 29 P., 217. 
§ 958. (653.] Judgment and decree of appropriation. At the time
of rendering judgment for damages, whether upon default or trial, if the
damages awarded be then paid, or upon their payment, if not paid at the 
time of rendering such judgment, the court, or judge thereof shall also
enter a judgment or decree of appropriation of the land, real estate,
premises, right-of-way, or other property sought to be appropriated,
thereby vesting the legal title to the same in the corporation seeking to
appropriate such land, real estate, premises, right-of-way or other prop­
erty for corporate purposes. Whenever said judgment or decree of ap­
propriation shall affect lands, real estate or other premises, a certified
copy of such judgment or decree of appropriation may be filed for record
in the office of the auditor of the county where the said land, real estate
or other premises are situated, and shall be recorded by said auditor like
a deed of real estate and with like effect. If the title to said land, real
estate, premises or other property attempted to be acquired is found to
be defective from any cause, the corporation may again institute proceed­
ings to acquire the same, as in this chapter provided.-Laws of 1891, p. 
84, § I. 
§ 959. (654.] Amount of verdict to be paid into court-Shall re­
main there if appeal taken. Upon the entry of judgment upon the
verdict of the jury or the decision of the court or judge thereof, award­ 
ing damages as hereinbefore prescribed, the petitioner, or any officer of,
or other person duly appointed by said corporation, may make payment
of the damages assessed to the parties entitled to the same, and of the
costs of the proceedings, by depositing the same with the clerk of said
superior court, to be paid out under the direction of the court or judge
thereof; and upon making such payment into the court of the damages
assessed and allowed, and of the costs, to any land, real estate, premises
or other property mentioned in said petition, such corporation shall be
released and discharged from any and all further liability therefor, unless
upon appeal the owner or other person or party interested shall recover
a greater amount of damages ; and in that case only for the amount in
excess of the sum paid into said court, and the costs of appeal : Provided,
That in case of an appeal to the supreme court of the state by any party 
to the proceedings, the money so paid into the superior court by such
corporation as aforesaid, shall remain in the custody of said court until
the final determination of the proceedings by the said supreme court.- . 
Laws of 1890, p. 299, § 7· 
§ 960. (655.] When money shall be paid to claimant. Any person,
corporation, state or county, claiming to be entitled to any money paid 
into court, as provided in this act, may apply to the court therefor, and
upon furnishing evidence satisfactory to the court that he or it is entitled
to the same, the court shall make an order directing the payment to such 
claimant the portion of such money as he or it shall be found entitled to; .
but if, on application, the court or judge thereof should decide that the title to the land, real estate, premises or other property specified in the
application of such claimant was in such condition as to require that an
action be commenced to determine the conflicting claims thereto, he shall
refuse such order until such action is commenced, and the conflicting
claims to such land, real estate, premises or other property be determined 
according to law.-Laws of 1890, p. 299, § 8. 
§ 961. [656.] Either party may appeal within thirty days. Either
party may appeal from the judgment for damages entered in the superior 
court to the supreme court of the state, within thirty days after the entry
of judgment as aforesaid, and such appeal shall bring before the supreme
court the propriety and justness of the amount of damages in respect to
the parties to the appeal : Provided, however, That no bond shall be re­
quired of any person interested in the property sought to be appropriated
by such corporation, but in case the corporation appropriating such land,
real estate, premises or other property is appellant, it shall give a bond
like that prescribed in the next following section, to be executed, filed
and approved in the same manner: And provided further, That if the
owner of the land, real estate, premises or other property accepts the sum
awarded by the jury, the court or the judge thereof, he shall be deemed
thereby to have waived conclusively an appeal to the supreme court, and
final judgment by default may be rendered in the superior court as in 
other cases.-Laws of 1890, p. 300, § 9.
Seattle & Montana Ry. Co. v. O'Meara, 4 W., 18; 29 P., 835. 
§ 962. [657.] Bond to continue work pending appeal. The con­
struction of any railway or canal, or the prosecution of any works or im­
provements, by any corporation as aforesaid, shall not be hindered, de­
layed, or prevented by the prosecution of the appeal of any party to the 
proceedings : Provided, The corporation aforesaid shall execute and file
with the clerk of the court in which the appeal is pending a bond, to be
approved by said clerk, with sufficient sureties, conditioned that the per­
sons executing the same shall pay whatever amount may be required by
the judgment of the court therein, and abide any rule or artier of the
court in relation to the matter in controversy.-Laws of 1890, p. 300, § 10. 
NoTa-The following is the repealing clause of this act of 18go: No rights ac­
quired in actions now pending under existing laws shall be affected by any­
thing herein contained, and as to all pending actions, such laws are con­
tinued in full force and effect. Except as provided in this section, all laws
and parts of laws relating to the appropriation of lands or other property
by corporations for corporate purposes are hereby repealed.-Laws of 
I8go, p. 300, § I I. 
§ 963. [658.] Right of way through defiles to be used in common. 
Any railroad company whose right-of-way passes through any canon,
pass or defile shall not prevent any other railroad company from the use
and occupancy of said canon, pass or defile for the purpose of its road in
common with the road first located or the crossing of other railroads at
grade, and any railroad company authorized by law to appropriate land,
real estate, premises or other property for right-of-way or any other cor­
porate purpose may present a petition, in the manner and form hereinbe­
fore provided, for the appropriation of a right-of-way through any canon,
pass or defile for the purpose of its road, where right-of-way has already
been located, condemned or occupied by some other railroad company 
through such canon, pass or defile for the purpose of its road, and there­
upon, like proceedings shall be bad upon such petition as herein
provided in other cases ; and at the time of rendering judgment for
damages, whether upon default or trial, the court or judge thereof
shall enter a judgment or decree authorizing said railroad company to
occupy and use said right-of-way, road-bed and track, if necessary, in
common with the railroad company or companies already occupying or
owning the same, and defining the terms and conditions upon which the
same shall beso occupied and used in common.-Lawsef1890, p. 300, § 12. 
NOTK: This act concludes with an emergency clause making it in effect imme­
diately. 
§ 964. [1569.*] Entry allowed for purposes of survey, etc. A
corporation organized for the construction of any railway, macadamized 
road, plank road, clay road, canal or bridge, shall have a right to enter
upon any land, real estate or premises, between the termini thereof for
the purpose of examining, locating and surveying the line of such road
or canal, or the site of such bridge, doing no unnecessary damage there­ 
by .--Laws ef 1887·8, p. 63, § 1. 
Bell. Bay Ry. Co. v. Loose, 2 W., SOOi 27 P., 174. 
§ g65. [1570.*] Amount of property and for what use appro­
priated. That such corporation may appropriate so much of said land,
real estate or premises as may be necessary for the line of such road or 
canal, or the site of such bridge, not exceeding two hundred feet in
width, besides a sufficient quantity thereof for tollbouses, workshops,
materials for construction, a right of way over adjacent lands or premises
to enable such corporation to construct and repair its road, canal or
bridge, and to make proper drains ; and in the case of a railroad, to
appropriate sufficient quantity of such lands, real estate or premises in
addition to that before specified in this section, for the necessary side
tracks, depots and water stations, and the right to conduct water thereto
by aqueduct; compensation therefor to be made to the owner thereof,
irrespective of any increased value thereof by reason of the proposed im­
provement by such corporation, in the manner provided by law ; and 
Jmruided .f_urllzer, That if such corporation locate the bed of such railroad
or canal 'upon any portion of the track now occupied by any estab
lished territorial or county road, said corporation shall be responsible to
the county commissioners of said county or counties, in which said terri­
torial or county road so appropriated is located, for all expenses incurred 
by said county or counties, in relocating and opening the portion of said
road so appropriated.-Laws of 1887-8, p. 63, § 2. 
§ 966. [1571.*] Power to cross, intersect, and unite railways­
Trial in such cases. Every corporation formed under this chapter for
the construction of a railroad shall have the power to cross, intersect, join
and unite its railway with any other railway before constructed at any 
point in its route, and upon the grounds of $UCh other railway company,
with the necessary turnouts, sidings, switches and other conveniences in
furtherance of the object of its connections, and every corporation whose
railway is, or shall be hereafter intersected by any new railway, shall
unite with the corporation owning such new railway in forming such in­
tersections and connections, and grant the facilities aforesaid ; and if the
two corporations cannot agree upon the amount of compensation to be 
made therefor, or the points and manner of such crossings and connec­
tions, the same shall be ascertained and determined in the manner pro­
vided by law for the taking of lands and other property which shall be
necessary for the construction of its road.-Laws of 1887-8, p. 64, § 3. 
§ 967. [1572.*] Railway along rivers, etc. Every corporation formed
under the laws of this territory for the construction of railroads shall pos­
sess the power to construct its railway across, along or upon any river, 
stream of water, watercourse, plank road, turnpike or canal, which the 
route of such railway shall intersect or touch ; but such corporation shall
restore the river, stream, watercourse, plank road or turnpike thus inter­
sected or touched, to its former state as near as may be and pay any dam­
ages caused by such construction. Provided, That the construction of
any railway by such corporation along, across or upon any of the navi­
gable rivers or waters of this territory shall be in such manner as to not
interfere with, impede or obstruct the navigation thereof.-Laws of 1887-8, 
p. 64, § 3. 
§ 968. [1573.*] Grade and locati9n may be changed. Any corpo­
ration may change the grade or location of its road or canal, not depart­ 
ing from the general route specified in the articles of incorporation, for
the purpose of avoiding annoyances to public travel or dangerous or de­
fi.cient curves or grades, or unsafe or unsubstantial grounds or foundation,
or for other like reasonable causes, and for the accomplishment of such
change, shall have the same right to enter upon, examine, survey and ap­
propriate the necessary lands and materials, as in the original location
and construction of such road or canal.-Code of 1881, § 2457. 
§ 969. [1574.*] Whenpublicroadsorstreetsmaybetaken. When
it shall be necessary or convenient in the location of any road herein men­ 
tioned to appropriate any part of any public road, street or alley or public
grounds, the [county court] [board of county commissioners f] of the county
wherein such road, street, alley or public grounds may be, unless the
same be within the corporate limits of a municipal corporation, is author­
ized to agree with the corporation constructing the road, upon the extent,
terms and conditions upon which the same may be appropriated or used,
and occupied by such corporation, and if such parties shall be unable to
agree thereon, such corporation may appropriate so much thereof as may 
be necessary and convenient in the location and construction of said road.
-Code of 1881, ~ 2458. 
§ 970. [i575.*] Authorities may designate what streets shall be 
taken. Whenever a private corporation is authorized to appropriate any
public highway or grounds, as mentioned in the last section, if the same
be within the limits of any town, whether incorporated or not, such cor­
poration shall locate their road upon such particular road, street or alley,
or public grounds within such town, as the local authorities mentioned
in the last section and having charge thereof shall designate; but if such
local authorities shall fail or refuse to make such designation within a
reasonable time, when requested, such corporation may make such ap­
propriation without reference thereto.-Code of 1881, § 2459. 
§ 971. [638.] Requisites of petition--Attorney general to pre­
sent. Whenever the legislature of this state shall deem it necessary for
the public uses of the state to acquire or appropriate land, real estate,
premises or other property, and shall by act set forth and describe such 
land, real estate, premises or other property, it shall be the duty of
the attorney general to present to the superior court of the county in
which said land, real estate, premises or other property so sought to be
acquired or appropriated shall be situated, a petition in which the land,
real estate, premises or other property sought to be appropriated shall
be described with reasonable certainty, and setting forth the name of each
and every owner, incnmbrancer or other person or party interested in the
same or any part thereof, so far as the same can be ascertained from the
public records, the object for which the land is sought to be appropriated,
and praying that a jury be impaneled to ascertain and determine the
compensation to be made in money to such owner or owners, respectively,
and to all tenants, incumbrancers and others interested, for taking such
lands, real estate, premises or other property, or in case a jury be waived,
as in other civil cases in courts of record, in the manner prescribed by
law, then that the compensation to be made as aforesaid be ascertained
and determined by the court or judge tbereof.-Laws ef 1891, p. 138, § 1. 
§ 972. [639.] Requisites of notice and how served. A notice,
stating briefly the objects of the petition and containing a description of 
the land, real estate, premises or· other property sought to be acquired
and appropriated, and stating the time and place when and where the
same will be presented to the court or the judge thereof, shall be served
on each and every person named therein as owner, incumbrancer, tenant
or otherwise interested therein at least ten days previous to the time
designated in such notice for the presentation of such petition. Such ser­
vice shall be made by delivering a copy of such notice to each of the
persons or parties so named therein, if a resident of the state ; or in case
of the absence of such person or party from his or her usual place of
abode, by leaving a copy of such notice at his or her place of abode ; or,
in case of a foreign corporation, at its principal place of business in this
state, with some person of more than sixteen years of age. In case of
domestic corporations, such service shall be made upon the. president,
secretary or other director or trustee of such corporation. In case of
minors, on .their guardians, or in case no guardian shall have been ap-
pointed, then on the person who has the care and custody of such minor ;
in case of idiots, lunatics or distracted persons, on their guardians, or in
case no guardian shall have been appointed; then on the person in whose
care or charge they are found. In case the land, real estate, premises or 
other property sought to be appropriated is school or county land, the
notice shall be served on the auditor of the county in which the land,
real estate, premises or other property sought to be acquired and appro­
priated is situated. In all cases where the owner or person claiming an
interest in such real estate or other property is anon-resident of this state, or
where the residence of such owner or person is unknown, and an affidavit
of the attorney general shall be filed that such owner or person is a non­
resident of this state, or that after diligent inquiry his residence is un­
known or cannot be ascertained, service may be made by publication
thereof in any newspaper published in the county where such lands are
situated once a week for two successive weeks ; and in case no news­
paper is published in said county, then such publication may be had in a
newspaper published in the county nearest the county in which lies the
land sought to be acquired and appropriated. And such publication
shall be deemed service upon each of such non-resident person or persons
whose residence is unknown. Such notice shall be signed by the attor­
ney general of the state of Washington. Such notice may be served by any
competent person over twenty-one years of age. Due proof of the service
of such notice by affidavit of the person serving the same, or by the printer's
affidavit of publication, shall be filed with the clerk of such superior court
before or at the time of the presentation of such petition. Want of ser­
vice of such notice shall render the subsequent proceedings void as to the
person not served, but all persons or parties having been served with
notice as herein provided, either by publication or otherwise, shall be
bound by the subsequent proceedings. In all other cases not otherwise
provided for, service of notices, order[s] and other papers in the proceed­
ings authorized by this act may be made as the superior court or judge
thereof may direct.-Laws of 1891, p. 139, § 2. 
Tacoma v. State, 4 W., 65; 29 P., 847. 
§ 973. [640.] Court may adjourn proceedings and further notice
be given. The court or judge may, upon application of the said attor­
ney general or any owner or party interested, for reasonable cause, ad­ 
journ the proceedings from time to time, and may order new or further
notice to be given to any party whose interest may be affected.-Laws of 
1891, p. 140, ~ 3.
~ 974. [641.] Proceedings on presentation of petition-Jury to be 
ordered. At the time and place appointed for hearing said petition, or
to which the same may have been adjourned, if the court or judge there­
of shall have satisfactory proof that all parties interested in the land,
real estate, premises or other property, described in said petition, have
been duly served with said notice as above prescribed, and shall be
further satisfied by competent proof that the contemplated use for which
the land, real estate, premises or other property sought to be appropri­
ated is really necessary for the public use of the state of Washington, the
court or judge thereof may make an order, to be recorded in the minutes
of said court, directing the sheriff to summon from the citizens of the
county in which such land, real estate, premises or other property sought
to be acquired or appropriated shall be situated, as many qualified per- 
sons as may be necessary in order to form a jury of twelve persons, un­
less the parties to the proceedings consent to a less number (such number
to be not less than three), and such consent shall be entered by the clerk
in the minutes of the trial. If necessary to complete the jury, the
sheriff, under the direction of the court or judge thereof, shall summon 
as many qualified persons as may be required to complete the jury from
the bystanders, citizens of the county where the land, real estate, 
premises or other property is situated.-Laws of 1891, p. 140, § 4. 
§ 975. [642.] Oonduct of trial-Separate asseaaments-.Tudgment. 
A judge of the superior court shall preside at the trial, which shall be
held at such time as the court or the judge thereof, may direct, at the
court house in the county where the land, real estate, premises or other
property sought to be appropriated or acquired is situated, and the jurors
at such trial shall make in each case a separate assessment of damages
which shall result to any person, corporation or company, or to any
county, by reason of the appropriation and use of such land, real estate,
premises or other property, and shall ascertain, determine and award the
amount of damages to be paid to said owner or owners respectively, and
to all tenants, incumbrancers and others interested for taking such land,
real estate, premises or other property so taken. Upon the trial, wit­
nesses may be examined in behalf of either party to the proceedings as in
civil actions; and a witness served with a subpoena in such proceedings
shall be punished for failure to appear at such trial, or for perjury, as
upon a trial of a civil action. Upon the verdict of the jury, judgment
shall be entered for the amount of the damages awarded to such owner
or owners, respectively, and to all tenants, incumbrancers and others
interested for taking such land, real estate or premises. In case a jury
is waived, as in civil cases in courts of record, in the manner prescribed
by law, the compensation to be paid for the property sought to be appro­
priated shall be ascertained and determined by the court or the judge
thereof, and the proceedings shall be the same as in trials of an issue of 
fact by the court.-Laws of 1891, p. 141, § 5. 
§ 976. [643.J Decree of appropriation to take place of deed. At
the time of rendering judgment for damages, whether upon default or
trial, the court or judge thereof shall also enter a judgment or decree of
appropriation of the land, real estate or premises sought to be appropri­ 
ated, thereby vesting the legal title to the same in the state of Washing­
ton. Whenever said judgment or decree of appropriation is made, a cer­
tified copy of such judgment or decree of appropriation may be filed for
record in the office of the auditor of the county where the said land, real
estate or other .premises are situated, and shall be recorded by said audi­
tor like a deed of real estate, and with like effect.-Laws of 1891, p. 142, 
§ 6.
§ 977. [644.J Payment by state-Appeal. Upon the entry of judg­ 
ment upon the verdict of the jury or the decision of the court or judge
thereof, awarding damages as hereinbefore prescribed, the state of Wash­
ington may make payment of the damages assessed to the parties entitled
to the same, and of the costs of the proceedings, by depositing the same
with the clerk of said superior court, to be paid out under the direction
of the court, or the judge thereof; and upon making such payment into
the court of the damages assessed and allowed, and of the costs to any
land, real estate, premises or other property mentioned in said petition,
said state of Washington shall be released and discharged from any and
all further liability therefor, unless upon appeal the owner or party inter­
ested shall recover a greater amount of damages; and in that case only
for the amount in excess of the sum paid into said court and the costs of
appeal: Provided, That in case of an appeal to the supreme court of the 
state by any party to the proceedings, the money so paid into the supe­
rior court by the state as aforesaid, shall remain in the custody of said
court until the final determination of the proceedings by the said supreme 
court.-Laws of 1891, p. 142, § 7.
§ 978 (645.] Bow money is claimed-Proceedings when title is 
disputed. Any person, corporation or county, claiming to be entitled to
any money paid into court, as provided in this act, may apply to the court
therefor, and upon furnishing evidence satisfactory to the court that
he or it is entitled to the same, the court shall make an order directing
the payment to such claimant the portion of such money as he or it shall
be found entitled to ; but if, upon application, the court or judge thereof
should decide that the title to the land, real estate, or premises specified
in the application of such claimant was in such condition as to require
that an action be commenced to determine the conflicting claims thereto,
he shall refuse such order until such action is commenced and the con­
flicting claims to such land, real estate or premises be determined accord­ 
ing to law.-Laws of 1891, p. 143, § 8. 
§ 979. (646.] Either party may appeal. Either party may appeal
from the judgment for damages entered in the superior court, to the su­
preme court of the state, within thirty days after the entry of judgment
as aforesaid, and such appeal shall bring before the supreme court the
propriety and justness of the amount of damage[s] in respect to the parties
to the appeal : Provided, however, That upon such appeal no bond shall
be required: And provided further, That if the owner of [tlze] land, (the]
real estate or premises accepts the sum awarded by the jury, the court or
the judge thereof, he shall be deemed thereby to have waived conclusively
an appeal to the supreme court, and final judgment by default may be
rendered in the superior court as in other cases : Provided further, That
no appeal shall operate so as to prevent the said state of Washington from
taking possession of such property pending such appeal after the amount 
of said award shall have been paid into court.-Laws of 1891, p. 143, § 9. 
§ 980. [647.] State auditor shall issue warrant. Whenever the at­
torney general shall file with the auditor of this state a certificate setting 
forth the amount of any award found against the state of Washington
under the provisions of this act, together with the costs of said proceed­
ing, and a description of the lands and premises sought to be appropri­
ated and acquired, and the title of the action or proceeding in which said
award is rendered, it shall be the duty of the state auditor to forthwith
issue a warrant upon the state treasury to the order of the attorney gen­
eral in a sum sufficient to make payment in money of said award, and the
costs of said proceeding, and thereupon it shall be the duty of said attor­
ney general to forthwith pay to the clerk of said court in money the
amount of said award and costs.-Laws of 1891, p. 143, § 10. 
§ 981. Purposes enumerated for which land may be taken-Com­
pensation to be first made. Every city of the first class within the
state of Washington is hereby authorized and empowered to condemn 
land and property for streets, avenues, alleys, highways, bridges, ap­
proaches, culverts, drains, ditches, public squares and public markets, city
and town halls, jails and other public buildings and for the opening, widen­
ing, extending, altering and straightening of any street, avenue, alley or
highway, and to damage any land or other property for any such purpose,
or for the purpose of making changes in the grade of any street, avenue,
alley or highway, or for the construction of slopes or retaining walls for
cuts and fills upon real property abutting on any street, avenue, alley or
highway now ordered to be, or such as shall hereafter be ordered to be
opened, extended, altered, straightened or graded, or for the purpose of
draining swamps, marshes or ponds, or filling the same, within the limits
of such city, and to condemn land or property, or to damage the same,
either within or without the limits· of such city for public parks, drives
and boulevards, hospitals, pest houses, drains and sewers, and for aque­
ducts, reservoirs, pumping stations and other structures for conveying
into and through such city a supply of fresh water ; and to condemn
land and other property and damage the same for any other public use
within the authority of such city after just compensation having . been 
first made or paid into court for the owner in the manner prescribed by
this act.-Laws of 1893, p. 189, § 1. 
§ 982. Proceedings to be authorized by ordinance-Special asseSB­
ments. When the corporate authorities of any such city shall desire to
condemn land or other property, or damage the same, for any purpose 
authorized by this act, such city shall provide therefor by ordinance, and
unless such ordinance shall provide that such improvement shall be paid
for wholly or in part by special assessment upon property benefited, com­
pensation therefor shall be made from any general funds of such city ap­
plicable thereto. If such ordinance shall provide that such improvement
shall be paid for wholly or in part by special assessment upon property
benefited, the proceedings for the making of such special assessment shall
be as hereinafter prescribed in this act: Provided, That no special assess­
ment shall be levied under authority of this act except when made for the
purpose of streets, avenues, alleys, or highways or alterations thereof or
changes of the grade therein or other improvements in or adjoining the
same, or for bridges, approaches, culverts, sewers, drains, ditches, public
squares, drives or boulevards or for the purpose of draining swamps,
marshes or ponds, or for filling the same : And it is further provided,
That when a street, avenue, highway or boulevard is established or
widened to a width greater than 150 feet the excess over and above the 
150 feet shall be paid out of the general fund of such city without any
deduction for benefits for such excess.-Laws of 1893, p. 190, § 2. 
§ 983. Petition to be flied in superior court. Whenever any such
ordinance shall be passed by the legislative authority of any such city
for the making of any improvement authorized by this act or any other 
improvement that such city is authorized to make, the making of which
will require that private property be taken or damaged for public use,
such city shall file a petition in the superior court of the county in which
such city is situated, in the name of the city, praying that just compen­
sation, to be made for the private property to be taken or damaged for the
improvement or purpose specified in such ordinance, '' be ascertained by
a jury or by the court in case a jury be waived."-Lawsof 1893, p. 190, § 3. 
§ 984. Oontents of petition. Such petition shall contain a copy of
said ordinance, certified by the clerk under the corporate seal, a reasonably
accurate description of the lots, parcels of land and property, which will
be taken or damaged, and the names of the owners and occupants thereof
and of persons having any interest therein, so far as known, to the officer
filing the petition or appearing from the records in the office of the county
auditor, and where any known owners or other persons so interested are
non-residents of the state, stating the fact of such non-residence.-Laws 
of 1893, p. 190, § 4· 
§ 985. Summons to be served with petition-Publication. Upon
the filing of the petition aforesaid a summons, returnable as summons in 
other civil actions, shall be issued and served upon the persons made par­
ties defendant, together with a copy of the petition, as in other civil
actions. And in case any of them are unknown or reside out of the state,
a summons for publication shall issue and publication be made and return
and proof thereof be made in the same manner as is or shall be provided
by the laws of the state for service upon absent defendants in other civil
actions. Notices so given by publication shall be sufficient to authorize
the court to hear and determine the suit as though all parties had been 
sued by their proper names and had been personally served.-Laws of 
1893, p. 191, § 5. 
§ 986. When service made on auditor. In case the land, real estate,
premises or other property sought to be appropriated or damaged [in] [is] 
state, school or county land, the summons and copy of petition shall be 
served on the auditor of the county in which such land, real estate, premises
or other property is situated. Service upon other parties defendant shall be
made in the same manner as is or shall be provided by law for service of
summons in other civil actions.-Laws of 1893, p. 191, § 6. 
§ 987. Jury to assess damages. Upon the return· of said summons,
or as soon thereafter as the business of court will permit, the said court
shall proceed to the hearing of such petition and shall impanel a jury to
ascertain the just compensation to be paid to all of such owners and oc­
cupants aforesaid ; but if any defendant or party in interest shall demand,
and the court shall deem it proper, separate juries may be impaneled as
to the compensation or damages to be paid to any one or more of such de­
fendants or parties in interest.-Laws of 1893, p. 191, § 7. 
§ 988. Claims of parties not named in petition. Such jury shall
also ascertain the just compensation to be paid to any person claiming an
interest in any lot, parcel of land or property which may be taken or dam­
aged by such improvement, whether or not such person's name or such
lot, parcel of land or other property is mentioned or described in such pe­
tition : Provided, Such person shall first be admitted as a. party defendant
to said suit by such court and shall file the statement of his interest in
and description of the lot, parcel of land or other property in respect to
which he claims compensation.-Laws of 1893, p. 191, § 8. 
§ 989. Jury may view premises. The court may, upon the motion
of such city or of any person claiming such compensation, direct that said 
jury (under the charge of an officer of the court) shall view the premises
which it is claimed by any party to said proceeding will be taken or dam­
aged by said improvement, and in any case where there is no satisfactory
evidence given to the jury as to the ownership of or as to the extent of
the interest of any defendant in the property to be taken or damaged, the 
jury may return their verdict as to the oompensation or damage to be paid
for the property or part of property to be taken or damaged for the entire 
interests therein.-Laws of 1893, p. 192, § 9. 
§ 990. Damages allowed for buildings taken. If there be any build­
ing standing, in whole or in part, upon any land to be taken, the jury in 
their verdict shall add to their finding of damage to the land the damages
also to the building or part of building necessary to be taken, if it be the
property of the owner of the land ; when owned by any other person the
damages to the building shall be found separately. The value of such
building to the owner to remove, or of the part thereof necessary to be
taken, shall also be found by the jury. At any time before the entry of 
judgment on the verdict such owner may file with the clerk of the court
in writing his election to take such building, or part of building, at the
value so found in case of removal, and in such case the amount of such
value shall be deducted from the damages found for the land and build­
ing, where they belong to the same owner, and from the damages found
for the building where they belong to different owners, and the owner 
hall have such time for the removal of such building after the entry of 
judgment as the court shall allow. If the owner shall fail to give notice
of his election as aforesaid within the time prescribed, then no deduction
shall be made from the damages found as aforesaid, and such building
shall become the property of the city in like manner as the land upon
which the same stands. If the lands and' buildings belong to different
persons, or if the land be subject to lease, the damages done to such per­
sons, respectively may be separately found by the jury on the request of 
any party.-Laws of 1893, p. 192, § 10. 
§ 991. Verdict and proceedings thereafter. Upon the return of the
verdict the proceedings of the court regarding new trial and the entry of
judgment thereon shall be the same as in other civil actions, and the 
judgment shall be such as the nature of the case shall require. The
court shall continue or adjourn the case from time to time as to all occu­
pants and owners named in such petition who shall not have been served
with process or brought in by publication, and new summons -may issue
or new publication may be made at any time ; and upon such occupants
or owners being brought in, the court. may impanel a jury to ascertain
the compensation so to be made to such defendant or defendants for pri­
vate property taken or damaged, and like proceedings shall be had for 
such purpose as hereinbefore provided. -Laws of 1893, p. 1931 § 11. 
§ 992.· Proceedings when ownership changed. The court shall
have power at any time, upon proof that any such . owner or owners
named in such petition who bas not been served with process has ceased to
be such owner or owners since the filing of such petition, to impanel a
jury and ascertain the just compensation to .be made for the property ( or
the damage thereto) which bas been owned by the person or persons so
ceasing to own the same, and the court may upon any :finding or :findings
of any jury or juries, or at any time during the course of such proceed­
ings enter such order, rule, judgment or decree as the nature of the case 
may require.-Laws of 1893. p. 193, § 12. 
§ 993. No delay on account of disputed ownership. No delay in
ascertaining the amount of compensation shall be occasioned by any
doubt or contest which may arise as to the ownership of the property, or 
any part thereof, or as to the interests of the respective owners or claim­
an ts, but in such case the court may impanel a jury to ascertain the
entire compensation or damage that should be paid for the property or part of property, and the entire interests of all the parties therein, and
may require adverse claimants to interplead, so as to fully determine
their rights and interests in the compensation so ascertained. And the
court may make such order as may be necessary in regard to the deposit 
or payment of such compensation.e=Zezes of 1893, p. 1931 § 13. 
§ 994. Guardians for infants, etc., to be appointed. When it shall
appear from said petition or otherwise, at any time during the proceed­
ings upon such petition, that any infant or insane or distracted person is 
interested in any property that is to be taken or damaged, the court shall
appoint a guardian ad !item for such infant or insane or distracted person
to appear and defend for him, her or them, and the court shall make such
order or decree as it shall deem proper to protect and secure the interest
of such infant or insane or distracted person in such property or the com­ 
pensation which shall be awarded therefor.-Laws of 1893, p. 194, § 14. 
§ 995. When benefits shall be considered. When the ordinance 
providing for any such improvement provides that compensation therefor 
shall be paid, ·in whole or in part, by special assessment upon property
benefited, the compensation found by the jury for any land or property
taken shall be irrespective of any benefit from the improvement proposed.
When such ordinance does not provide for any assessment, in whole or
in part, upon property benefited, the compensation found for land or
property taken, and in all cases the damages found in respect to land or
property not taken, shall be ascertained over and above any local and
special benefit arising from such proposed improvement, except as pro­
vided in section two [986] of this act as to streets, avenues and boulevards
established or widened to a width greater than 150 feet, in which class of
cases no benefits shall be deducted as to such excess.-Laws oj 1893, p. 
194, § 15. 
§ 996. Proceedings to be final except as to appeals-Work not to 
be delayed by appeal. Any final judgment or judgments rendered by
said court upon any finding or findings of any jury or juries, or upon
any finding or findings of the court in case a jury be waived, shall be
lawful and sufficient condemnation of the land or property to be taken, or
of the right to damage the same in the manner proposed, upon the pay­
ment of the amount of such findings and all taxable costs, as herein­
after provided. It shall be final and conclusive as to the damges
caused by such improvement unless such judgment or judgments
shall be appealed from ; and no appeal from the same shall de­
lay proceedings under said ordinance, if such city shall pay into
court for the owners, as directed by the court, the amount of the 
judgment and costs, and such city, after making such payment into court,
shall be liable to such owner or owners for the payment of any further
compensation which may at any time be finally awarded to such parties
so appealing in said proceeding, and his or her costs, and shall pay the
same on the rendition of judgment therefor and abide any rule or order of
the court in relation to the matter in controversy. In case- of an appeal
to the supreme court of the . state by any party to the proceedings the
money so paid into the superior court by such city, as aforesaid, shall re­
main in the custody of said superior court until the final determination of
the proceedings. If the owner of the land, real estate, premises or other
property accepts the sum awarded by the jury, the court or the judge
thereof, he shall be deemed thereby to have waived conclusively an ap­
peal to the supreme court and final judgment by default may be rendered
in the superior court as in other cases.-Laws of 1893, p. 1941 § 16. 
§ 997. Possession may be taken on payment of damages. The
court, upon proof that just compensation so found by the jury, or by the 
court in case the jury is waived, together with costs, has been paid to the
person entitled thereto, or has been paid into court as directed by the
court, shall enter an order that the city shall have the right at any time
thereafter to take possession of or damage the property in respect to which
such compensation shall have been so paid or paid into court as aforesaid. 
-Laws of 1893, p. 195, § 17.
~ 998. If no assessment, payment shall be made from the general 
fund. When the ordinance under which said improvement is ordered to
be made shall not provide that such improvement shall be made wholly
by special assessment upon property benefited, the whole amount of such
damages and costs, or such part thereof as shall not be assessed upon
property benefited, shall be paid from the general fund of such city, and 
if sufficient funds therefor are not already provided, such city shall levy
and collect a sufficient sum therefor as part of the general taxes of such
city, or may contract indebtedness by the issuance of bonds or warrants
therefor as in other cases of internal improvements.-Laws of 1893. p. 
195, § 18: 
§ 999. Payment by special assessment. When such ordinance under
which said improvement shall be ordered shall provide that such improve­
ment shall be paid for in whole or in part by special assessment or special 
taxation of contiguous property benefited thereby, the damage and costs
awarded, or such part thereof as is to be paid from special taxation or
special assessment, shall be levied, assessed and colJected in the manners
hereinafter provided.-Laws of 1893, p. 196, § 19. 
§ 1000. Supplemental petition for special assessments-Commis­
sioners to be appointed. Such city may file in the same proceeding a
supplementary petition praying the court that an assessment be made for
the purpose of raising an amount necessary to pay the compensation and
damages which may or shall have been awarded for the property taken or
damaged, with the costs of the proceedings, or for such part thereof as the
ordinance shall provide. The said court shall have power at any time
after such supplementarypetition shall have been filed, to appoint three
commissioners to make such assessment and also to ascertain and include
therein, as near as may be, the costs incurred to the time of such appoint­
ment and the probable further costs of the proceedings, including therein
the estimated costs of making and collecting such assessment, and shall
direct such costs to be included by such commissioners in making said
compensation.-Laws of 1893, p. 196, § 20. 
§ 1001. Commissioners' oath. Upon the filing of. such petition the
court shall appoint three competent persons as .commissioners, who shall
take and subscribe an oath substantially as follows, to-wit : 
"STATE OF WASHINGTON, COUNTY OF · , SS. 
"We, the undersigned commissioners appointed by the superior court
of county, State of Washington, to assess the cost of---------------
(here state in general terms the improvement), do solemnly swear (or
affirm, as the case may be) that we will a true and impartial assessment 
make of the cost of said improvement upon the city of----·-···-····· and
the property benefited by such improvement, to the best of our ability 
and according to law.-Laws of 1893, p. 196, § 21. 
§ 1002. Duty of Commissioners-Rules for assessing. It shall be
the duty of such commissioners to examine the locality where the im­
provement is proposed to be made, and the lots, blocks, tracts and parcels
of land that will be specially benefited thereby, and to estimate what pro­
portion of the total cost of such improvements will be of benefit to the
public and what proportion thereof will be of benefit to the property
to be benefited, and apportion the same between the city and such prop­
erty, so that each shall bear its relative equitable proportion; and having
found said amounts to apportion and assess the amount so found to be of
benefit to the property upon the several lots, blocks, tracts and parcels of
land in the proportion in which they will be severally benefited by such im­
provement: Provided, That no lot, block, tract or parcel of land shall be
assessed a greater amount than it will be actually benefited, nor shall any
lot, block, tract or parcel of land which shall have been found by the 
jury or court to be damaged be assessed for any benefits: And Provided
further, That it shall not be necessary for said commissioners to examine 
the locality excepting where the ordinance provides for the establishment,
opening, widening or improvement of streets, avenues, alleys or high­
ways. Such part of the compensation, damages and costs as is not
finally assessed against property benefited shall be paid from any general
funds of the city or town applicable thereto.-Laws of 1893, p. 196, § 22. 
§ 1003. Assessment roll. Such commissioners shall also make, or
cause to be made, an assessment roll, in which shall appear the names of
the owners so far as known, description of each lot, block, tract or. par­
cel of land and the amount assessed as soecial benefits thereto, and in which
they shall set down as against the city the amount they shall have found
as public benefit and certify such assessment roll to the court by which
they were appointed within sixty days after their appointment, or within
such extension of said period as shall be allowed by the court.--Laws of 
1893, p. 197, § 23. 
§ 1004. Hearing on assessment roll, notice how given. After the
return of such assessment roll the court shall make an order setting a
time for the hearing thereof before the court, which day shall be at least 
twenty days after the return of such roll. It shall be the duty of such
commissioners to give notice of such assessment and of the day fixed by
the court for the hearing thereof in the following manner : 
1. They shall send by mail to each owner of premises assessed,
whose name and place of residence is known to them, a notice substan­
tially in the following form: 
"Mr. , your (here give a short description of the premises) is
assessed$ for public improvement. Hearing on the assessment roll 
will be. had before the superior court of county, (here
give date). 
Commissioners," 
2. They shall cause at least ten days' notice to be given by posting
notice in at least three public places in such city, one of which shall be
in the neighborhood of such proposed improvement, and when a daily
newspaper is published in such city, by publishing the same at least five
successive days in such daily newspaper, or if no daily newspaper is pub­
lished in such city and a· weekly newspaper is published therein, then at
least twice, being once in each week for two successive weeks, in such
weekly newspaper, or if no daily or weekly newspaper is published in
such city, then in a newspaper published in the county in which such city
is situated, which notice may be substantially as follows : 
SPECIAL ASSESSMENT NoTICE.-Notice is hereby given to all persons
interested that the city council (or other legislative authority) of _ 
1' 
----------- -----------·' 
----------- ------------, 
having ordered that ( here insert the description and nature of improve­
ments substantially as in the ordinance) have applied to the superior 
court of county for assessment of the cost of said improvements
according to benefits, and an assessment thereof having been made and 
returned to said court, the final hearing thereon will be had before said 
court on the day of__ , A. D., 18 . · All persons desiring may
then and there appear and make their defense. 
-Laws of 1893, p. 197, § 24. 
§ I005. Proof of mailing and posting notices. On or before the
final hearings, the affidavit of one or more of the commissioners shall be
filed in said court, stating that they have sent, or caused to be sent, by
mail, to the owners whose premises have been assessed and whose names
and place of residence are known to them, the notice hereinbefore re­
quired to be sent by mail to owners of premises assessed. They shall
also cause to be filed the affidavit of the person who shall have posted the
notice required by this act to be posted, setting forth when and in what
manner the same were posted. Such affidavit shall be received as prima
fade evidence of a compliance with this act in regard to giving such no­
tices. They shall also file a certificate of publication of such notice in
like manner as is required in other cases of publication of notices of sum­ 
monses.-Laws of 1893, p. 199, § 25. 
§ IOo6. Proceedings may be adjourned. If ten days shall not have
elapsed between the first publication or the putting up of such notices
and the day set for hearing, the hearing jshall be continued until such
time as the! court shall order. The court shall retain full jurisdiction of
the matter until final judgment on the assessments, and if the notice
given shall prove invalid or insufficient the court shall order new notice 
to be given.-Lawsef 1893, p. 199, § 26. 
§ 1007. Objections may be flied. Any person interested in any real
estate to be affected by such assessment may appear and file objections to
such report, and the court may make such rule or order in regard to the
time of filing such objections as the court shall deem proper. As to all
lots, blocks, tracts and parcels of land, to the assessment of which objec­
tions are not filed within the time ordered by the court, default may be
entered and the assessment confirmed by the court.-Laws of 1893, 
p. 199, § 27. 
§ 1008. Evidence on trial-Jury to determine amount of asseu­
ments. On the hearing, the report of such commissioners shall be com­
petent evidence, and either party may introduce such other evidence as 
may tend to establish the right of the matter. The hearing shall be con­
ducted as in other cases at law, and if it shall appear that the premises of
the objector are assessed more or less than they will be benefited, or more
or less than their proportionate share of the cost of the improvement, the
jury shall so find, and also find the amount in which said premises ought
to be assessed, and the judgment shall be entered accordingly.-Laws of 
1893, p. 199, § 28. 
·----------- -----------·' 
·----------- -----------1 
Commissioners,"
------- ----· -----------1 
§ 1009. Power of court over award of commissioners. The court
before [wkuk] any such proceedings may be pending shall have authority,
at any time before final judgment, to modify, alter, change, annul or con­ 
firm any assessment returned as aforesaid, or cause any such assessment
to be recast by the same commissioners, whenever it shall be necessary
for the obtainment of justice, or may appoint other commissioners in the 
place of all or any of the commissioners first appointed for the purpose of
making such assessment or modifying, altering, changing or recasting
the same, and may take all such proceedings and make all such orders as
may be necessary to make a true and just assessment of the cost of such
improvement according to the principles of this act, and may from time
to time, as may be necessary, continue the application for that purpose as
to the whole or any part of the premises.-Laws of 1893, p. 200, § 29. 
§ 1010. Judgment asto each parcel a lien thereon. The judgment
of the court shall have the effect of a separate judgment as to each tract
or parcel of land assessed, and any appeal from such judgment shall not
invalidate or delay the judgment except as to the property concerning
which the appeal is taken. Such judgment shall be a lien upon the
property assessed from the date thereof until payment shall be made. - 
Laws of 1893, p. 200, § .10. 
§ 1011. Clerk shall send assessment roll and judgment to treas­
urer. The clerk of the court in which such judgment is rendered shall
certify a copy of the assessment roll and judgment to the treasurer of the
city, or if there has been an appeal taken from any part of such judg­
ment then he shall certify such part of the roll and judgment as is not
included in such appeal, and the remainder when final judgment is ren­
dered. Such judgment and copy of assessment roll shall describe the
lots, blocks, tracts or parcels of land assessed and the respective amounts
assessed on each lot, block, tract or parcel of land, and shall be sufficient
warrant to the city treasurer to collect the assessments therein specified. 
Laws of 1893, p. 200, § 31. 
§ 1012. Treasure;r to publish notice of assessment. The treasurer
receiving such certified copy of the assessment roll shall immediately give 
notice thereof by publishing such notice at least once in the official news­
paper or newspapers of such city or town, if such newspaper or newspa­
pers there be ; and if there be no such newspaper, then by posting four
copies thereof in public places along the line of the proposed improve­
ment; such notice may be, substantially, in the following form: 
"SPECIAL ASSESSMENT NoTICE.-Public notice is hereby given that
the superior court of--···-····· county, State of Washington, has rendered 
judgment for a special assessment upon property benefited by the follow­
ing improvement (here insert the character and location of the improve­
ment in general terms) as will more fully appear from the certified copy
of the judgment on file in my office, and that the undersigned is author­
ized to collect such· assessments. All persons interested are hereby noti­
fied to call and pay the amounts assessed at my office (here insert location
of office) within thirty days from the date hereof. 
"Dated this·----------· day of , A. D. 18 _ 
-Laws of 1893, p. 200, § 32. 
cc Ci'ty (or town) treasurer of ." 
§ 1013·. Treasurer must mail notices-Penalty-.for omission. It 
shall be the duty of the city treasurer into whose hands such judgment
for assessments shall come, to inform the persons whose names appear on
the assessment roll of such assessment by written or printed notice depos­
ited in the mail, postage prepaid, and addressed to such persons so far as
the residences of such persons are known to him, requesting payment of 
the same. Any such treasurer omitting so to do shall be liable to a pen­
alty of five dollars for every such omission ; but the validity of the spe­
cial assessment shall not be affected by such omission. It shall be the
duty of such treasurer to write the word '' paid '' opposite each tract or
lot on which the assessment is paid, together with the name and postoffice
address of the person making the payment and date of payment.-Laws 
of 1893, p. 201, § 33. 
§ 1014. Assessment roll to be sent to comptroller-W&rr&nt for
s&le of lots. Within fifteen days from the expiration of the time limited
for the payment of any such assessments the treasurer must return the 
improvement assessment roll to the comptroller, if there be such officer of
the city, otherwise to the city clerk, distinguishing thereon the assess­
ments paid and those unpaid. The comptroller or clerk, as the case may
be, shall, upon receipt of said roll, credit the treasurer with the amount
of the assessments collected thereon, and thereupon issue and annex
thereto a warrant directing the treasurer to sell all the lots or parcels of
land described in said roll upon which assessments are levied, whether in
the name of a designated owner or in the name of an unknown owner,
to satisfy all delinquent and unpaid assessments upon said roll, with costs
and charges. On the day of the commencement of the sale of said real
property in pursuance of such warrant, a penalty of ten per cent. on the
principal amount of every unpaid assessment on said improvement assess­
ment roll shall accrue to such assessment, and must then and thereafter 
be collected therewith, together with the interest to accrue as herein pro­
vided. -Laws of 1893, p. 201, § 34. 
§ 1015. Warrant deemed &n execution-Notice of sale-Three
week's public&tion-M&nner of conducting sale, Such warrant is­
sued for the purpose of making sale of said real property on which 
assessments are delinquent and unpaid, shall be deemed and taken as an
execution against said real property for the amount of said assessments
with penalty and costs, and the treasurer or his deputy shall, within
sixty days from the receipt thereof by him, commence the sale of said
real property and continue such sale from day to day thereafter, except
on Sundays and legal holidays, until all the lots and parcels of land de-
scribed in said assessment roll on which any such assessment is delin­
quent and unpaid are sold. Such sale shall take place at the front door
of the building in which the city council or other legislative body, holds
its sessions. The treasurer shall give notice of such sales by publishing
a notice thereof once in each week for three consecutive weeks in the offi­
cial newspaper or newspapers of the city, or if there be no such news­
paper, then by publishing the same for said period in some newspaper
published in the same county in which the city is situated, or if no such
newspaper be published in such county, then in some newspaper pub­
lished in the state of general circulation in such county. Such notice
shall contain a list of all lots and parcels of land upon which such assess­
ments are delinquent, with the amount of the assessment, penalty and
costs to date of sale, including cost of advertising due upon each of such
lots or parcels of land, together with the names of the owners thereof, or
the words "unknown owners" as the same may appear upon said im­
provement assessment roll, and shall specify the time and place of sale
and that the several lots and parcels of land therein described will be
sold to satisfy the assessment, penalty and costs due upon each. All of
such sales shall be made between the hours of ten o'clock A. M. and four 
o'clock P. M. Each lot or parcel of land shall be sold separately and in
the order in which the same appears on the improvement assessment roll,
commencing at the head thereof. If there be no bidder for any lot or
parcel of land of a sum sufficient to pay the delinquent assessment there­
on, with penalty and costs, the treasurer shall strike the same off to the
city for the whole amount which he is required to collect by such sale.­ 
Laws of 1893, p. 202, § 35. 
§ 1016. Surplus to be paid owner-Certiflcate of sale-Deed after
two years. All lots and parcels of land sold for delinquent improve­
ment assessments shall be sold to the highest bidder, and whenever any
such lot is sold for more than the sum sufficient to satisfy the delinquent
assessment, with penalty and costs, the surplus shall be kept by the
treasurer in a separate fund, and thereafter the owner, or his legal repre­
sentative, shall on application to the city council, or other legislative
body, be entitled to a warrant therefor. After receiving the amount of
the assessment, penalty, cost and charges, the treasurer shall make out a
certificate, dated on the day of sale, stating (when known) the name of
the owner as given on the assessment roll, a description of the land sold,
the amount paid therefor, the name of the purchaser, that it was sold for
the assessment, giving the name of the street or other brief designation
of the improvement for which the assessment was made, and specifying 
that the purchaser will be entitled to a deed in two years from the day of
sale unless redemption thereof be' made. Such certificate shall be signed
by the treasurer, and shall be delivered to the purchaser and shall be by
such purchaser recorded in the office of the county auditor of the county
in which the lands are situated within three months from the date there­
of. If not recorded within said time, the lien thereof shall he postponed
to claims of subsequent purchasers and encumbrancers for value and in
good faith who become such while the same is unrecorded.-Laws of 
1893, p. 203, § 36. 
§ 1017. Resale in case price is not paid. If any bidder to whom
any lot or parcel of land is stricken off does not pay the assessment, pen­
alty and costs before ten o'clock, A. M. of the day following the day of
such sale, such lot or parcel of land must then be resold, or if the assess­
ment sale-is closed, be deemed to have been sold to the city or town, and
the certificate of purchase shall be issued to the city therefor.-Laws of 
1893, p. 203, § 37. . 
§ 1018. Certiflcate of sale to city, may be sold by comptroller or
clerk. The city comptroller, if there be such officer, and if not then the
city or town clerk, shall be the custodian of all certificates of purchase
for lots or parcels of land sold to the city, and shall at any time within
two years from the date of such certificate, and before redemption of the
lot or parcel of land therein described, sell and transfer any such certifi­
cate to any person who will pay to him the amount for which the lot or
parcel of land therein described was stricken off to the city, with interest
subsequently accrued thereon, and the treasurer may, if so authorized by
the council, sell and transfer any such certificate in like manner after the
expiratiou of such two years from the date of the certificate.-Laws of 
1893, p. 204, § 38. 
§ 1019. Treasurer must return assessment roll with account of
sale. Within ten days after the completion of the sale of all lots and 
parcels of land described in such improvement assessment roll, and 
authorized to be sold as aforesaid, the treasurer must make return to the
comptroller, or other officer by whom the warrant was issued, of said
assessment roll, with a statement of his doings thereon, showing all lots
and parcels of land sold by him, to whom sold and the sum paid therefor. 
-Laws of r893, p. 204, § 39· 
~ 1020. Purchaser has lien for amount paid-Twenty per cent. in­
terest. The purchaser at such sale acquires a lien on the lot or parcel of
land sold for the amount paid by him at such sale as well as for all taxes
and special assessments and all interest, penalties, costs and charges
thereon, whether levied previously or subsequently to such sale, and
whether for state, county, city or town purposes, subsequently paid by
him on the lot or parcel of land, and shall be entitled to interest at the
rate of twenty per cent. per annum on the original amount paid and such
subsequent payments from the date of the respective payments.-Laws 
of 1893, p. 204, § 40. 
§ 1021. Redemption within two years-When deed shall be given
-Requisites of. Every lot and parcel of land sold for an improvement
assessment shall be subject to redemption by the former owner, or his 
grantee, mortgagee, heir or other representative within two years from the
date of the sale upon payment to the treasurer for the purchaser of the
amount for which the same was sold, with interest at the rate of twenty
per cent. per annum, together with all taxes and special assessments and
interest, penalties and charges thereon paid by the purchaser on such lot
or parcel of land since such sale, with like interest thereon. Unless writ­
ten notice of taxes and assessments subsequently paid, and the amount
thereof shall be lodged with the treasurer, redemption maybe made with­
out including the same. On any such redemption being made the treas­
urer shall give to the redemptioner a certificate of redemption therefor,
and pay over the amount received from such redemption to the purchaser
or his assigns. Should no redemption be made within the period of two
years the treasurer shall, on demand of the purchaser or his assigns, and
the surrender of the certificate, execute to him a deed for the lot or parcel
of land therein described : Provided, That no such deed shall be executed
until the holder of such certificate shall have notified the owner of said
lots or parcels of land that he holds said certificate and that he will de­
mand a deed therefor ; and if, notwithstanding said notice, no redemption
be made within sixty days from the date of the service or first publication
of said notice, said holder shall be entitled to said deed. Said notice may
be given by personal service upon said persons or by publication in a
weekly newspaper, published in said city, once in each week for three suc­
cessive weeks, if no newspaper be published in said city then publication
shall be made as provided in section 34 [24] [1004] of this act. Such notice
and return thereto, with the affidavit of the person claiming said deed stat­
ing that said service was made, shall be filed with the treasurer. Such deed
shall be executed only for the lot or parcel of land named in the certifi­
cate, and after payment of all subsequent taxes and special assessments
thereon. The deed shall be executed in the name of the city by which
the improvement is made ; shall recite in substance the matters contained
in the certificate, the notice to the owner, and that no redemption has been
made of the property within the time allowed by law. Such deed shall
be signed and acknowledged by the city treasurer as such. The deed
shall be pn·ma fade evidence that the property was assessed as required
by law ; that the assessment was not paid ; that the property was sold as 
required by law ; that it was not redeemed ; that notice had been given,
. and that the person executing the deed was the proper officer ; and the 
deed shall be conclusive evidence of the regularity of all other proceed­
ings from the assessment, inclusive, tip to the execution of the deed.­ 
Laws of 1893, p. 204. § 41. 
§ 1022. Assessments to be a special fund. All moneys received or
collected by the treasurer upon assessments for any purpose authorized by
this act shall be kept as a separate fund, and in no wise used for any other
purpose whatever, except for the _redemption of warrants drawn against 
such fund.-Laws of 1893, p. 206, § 42. 
§ 1023. Entry of payment on assessment roll. Whenever before
sale of any lot or parcel of land the amount of any assessment thereon,
with penalty and costs accrued thereon, shall be paid to the treasurer, he 
shall thereupon mark the same paid, with the date of payment thereof on
the assessment roll, and whenever after sale of any lot or parcel of land
for any assessments, the same shall be redeemed, he shall thereupon enter
the same redeemed with the date of such redemption on such record.
Such entry shall be made on the margin of the record opposite the de­
scription of such lot or parcel of land.-Laws of 1893, p. 206, § 43. 
§ 1024. Treasurer liable for all amounts paid him. If the treas­
urer shall receive any moneys for assessments, giving a receipt therefor, 
for any lot or parcel of land and afterwards return the same as unpaid, or
shall receive the same after making such return, and the same be sold for
assessment which has been so paid and receipted for by himself or his
clerk or assistant, he and his bond shall be liable to the holder of the cer- 
. tificate given to the purchaser at the sale for the amount of the face of the
certificate, and a penalty of twenty per centum· additional thereto besides
legal interest, to be demanded within two years from the date of the sale
and recovered in any court having jurisdiction of [the] amount, and the
city shall in no case be liable to the holder of such certificate.-Laws of 
1893, p. 2o6, § 43. 
§ 1025. Assessments may be annulled and uew ones ordered. If
any assessment be annulled or set aside by any court, or be invalid for
any cause, a new assessment maybe made and return[ed] and like notice 
given and proceedings had as herein required in relation to the first ; and
all parties in interest shall have the like rights, and the city council or
other legislative body, and the superior court, shall perform the like duties
and have the like power in relation to any subsequent assessment as are 
hereby given in relation to the first assessment.-Lawsof 1893, p. 206, § 45. 
§ 1026. All assessments to be liens until paid-4-May be foreclosed
like mortgages. All the assessments levied by any city under this act 
shall, from the date of the assessment, be a lien upon the real estate upon
which the same may be imposed, and such lien shall continue until such
assessments are paid. If any proceedings taken for the enforcement thereof
shall be held void or invalid, such city shall provide by ordinance for new
proceedings and a new sale for the enforcement thereof in like manner as
hereinbefore provided; and, in addition to the remedy hereinbefore pro­
vided, any city may enforce such lien by civil action in any court of com­
petent jurisdiction in like manner and with like effect as actions for the 
foreclosure of mortgage.-Laws of 1893. p. 206, § 46. 
§ 1027. Damages by grading streets, how ascertained. If any
street, avenue or alley, or the right to use and control the same for pur- 
poses of public travel, shall belong to any city, and such city shall establish
a grade therefor, which grade requires any cut or fill, damaging abutting
property, the damages to arise from the making of such grade may be
ascertained in the manner provided in this act, but such city may provide
that the compensation to be made for such damage, together with the
accruing costs, shall be added to the cost of labor and material necessary
for the grading thereof, and shall be paid by assessment upon the prop­
erty within the local assessment district defined by law or the charter or
ordinances of such city in the same manner and to the same extent as
other expenses of such improvement are assessed and collected. In such
case it shall not be necessary to procure the appointment of commis­
sioners or take the other proceedings herein provided for making such
assessments, but all the proceedings for the assessment and collection of
such damages and costs, shall, if so ordained by such city, be governed
by the charter provisions, law or ordinances in force in such city for the
assessment and collection of the cost of such improvements upon prop­
erty locally benefited thereby : Prouided, however, That this section shall
apply only to the original grading of such street, avenue or alley .-Laws 
of 1893, p. 209, ~ 47· 
§ 1028. City may discontinue· proceedings and improvements
after judgment. At any time within two months from the date of ren­
dition of the last judgment awarding compensation for any such improve­
ment in the superior court, or if any appeal be taken, then within two
months after the final determination of the appeal in the -supreme court,
any such city may discontinue the proceedings by ordinance passed for
that purpose before making payment or proceeding with the improvement
by paying or depositing in court all taxable costs incurred by any
parties to the proceedings up to the time of such discontinuance. If
any such improvement be discontinued, no new proceedings shall be un­
dertaken therefor until the expiration of one year from the date of such 
discontinuance.-Laws of 1891, p. 208, § 48. 
§ 1029. City may advance payments to be made by special assess­
ments. If any city or town shall desire to take possession of any prop­
erty or do any damage or proceed with any improvement, the compensa­ 
tion for which is to be paid for in whole or in part from the proceeds of
special assessment under this act, it may advance from its general funds,
or any money available for the purpose, the amount of the assess­
ments aforesaid, and pay the same to the owner or into court, as herein
provided, reimbursing itself for moneys so advanced from the special
assessments aforesaid. If there be no funds available for the purpose,
such city may contract indebtedness for the purpose of raising funds
therefor, which indebtedness shall be contracted and such proceedings
taken therefor as is provided by law for indebtedness contracted for other 
internal improvements.-Laws of 1893, p. 208, § 49. 
§ 1030. Jury may be waived-Court shall decide whether a pub­
lic use-Appeal within thirty days-Proceedings to take precedence. 
In any proceedings under this act wherein a trial by jury is provided for,
the jury may be waived as in other civil cases in courts of record in the
manner prescribed by law, and the matter may be heard and determined
without the intervention of a jury. Whenever an attempt is made to
take private property for a use alleged to be public under authority of
this act, the question whether the contemplated use be really public 
shall be a judicial question and shall be determined as such by the
court before inquiry is bad into the question of compensation to be made.
When a jury is required for the determination of any matter under this
act, such jury may be the same jury summoned for the trial of ordinary
civil actions before the court, or the court may, in its discretion, issue a
venire to the sheriff to summon as jurors such number of qualified per­
sons as the court shall deem sufficient. Except as herein otherwise pro­
vided, the practice and procedure under this act in the superior court,
and in relation to the taking of appeals and prosecution thereof shall be
the same as in other civil actions, but all appeals must be taken within
thirty days from the date of the rendition of the judgment appealed
from. Proceedings under this act shall have precedence of all other cases
in court except criminal cases.-Laws of 1893, p. 2o8, § 50. 
§ 1031. Definition of "person." Whenever the word ·'person" is
used in this act the same shall be construed to include any company, cor­
poration or association, the state or [any] county therein.-Lawsof 1893, 
p. 909, § 51. . 
§ 1032. Compensation may be made for past damages. If any city
has heretofore taken or shall hereafter take possession of any land or other
property, or has damaged or shall hereafter damage the same for any of
the public purposes mentioned in this act, or for any other purpose within
the authority of such city, without having made just compensation there­
for, such city may cause such compensation to be ascertained and .paid to
the persons entitled thereto by proceedings taken in accordance with the
provisions of this act, and the payment of such compensation and costs 
as shall be adjudged in favor of the persons entitled thereto in such pro­
ceedings shall be a defense to any other action for the taking or damaging 
of such property.-Laws of 1893, p. 209, § 52. ·
Note: This act concludes with an emergency clause, making it in effect imme­ 
APPROPRIATION OF PROPERTY BY MUNICIPAL CORPORATIONS EXCEPT
CITIES OF THE FIRST CLASS. 
§ 1033. Proceedings to be same as condemnation by private cor­
porations. Municipal corporations, except cities of the first class, are
hereby empowered and authorized to acquire, condemn, take or damage
private property for public corporate uses, and for such purposes may pro­
ceed to acquire, take, or damage the same, in the manner provided by chapter nine of the laws of 1890, relating to 
Appropriation of lands by
corporations, to regulate proceedings for," entitled "An act to regulate
the mode of proceeding to appropriate lands, real estate or property, by
corporations for corporate purposes, and of ascertaining and securing com­
pensation therefor, and repealing laws in conflict with this act, and de­
claring an emergency," approved March arst, 1890.-Laws of 1893, p. 
135, § I. 
diately. Approved March 9, 1893. 
CHAPTER LXXVIII. 
i 1033. Procttdings to be same as condemnation by private corporations. 
II 
§ 1034. [2080.*] Who may have logging way. That any person or
persons, firm, company or corporation owning or controlling any timber
lands, or growing timber on land in this territory, and desiring to cut and 
remove such timber from such lands to a point where the same may be
driven, rafted, boomed or shipped for lumbering purposes, and have
[having] no practical road or right of way for a road whereon to haul
and remove said timber, shall have the right to establish a right of way
for a logging road or a logging chute from said lands to any waters or
railroad by the most direct and feasible route for the removal of said tim­
ber as in this act hereinafter prescribed; provided, that the words person
or persons in this act shall not be construed to mean any person or per­
sons who may compose any part of any company or corporation availing
themselves of the provisions of this act.-Laws of 1887-8, p. 1321 § 1. 
NOTE : Const. Art. I., § 16 ; as to corporations see note to § 96:z. 
§ 1035. [2081.*] Petition and map must be flied. Any person or
persons, firm, company or corporation desiring to establish such right of 
way whereon to construct a logging road or chute, shall file with the dis­
trict court of the district wherein such road is to be located, laid out and
built, a map showing the location and extent of the lands whereon the
timber is to be removed, the point or· place of location of the proposed
terminus of said road, the place where the said road is to begin, the pro­
posed direction, and most direct and feasible route for said road or chute
to run, the sections, townships and ranges through which said road, if
located, would pass, and the names of the persons in actual possession of
any of the lands through which said road or chute would have to be built,
from its place of commencement to its point of termination, together with
a petition of the applicant or applicants, verified by the oath of at least
one of the applicants ; or, in case a corporation is applicant, by the secre­
tary of the corporation, describing the lands sought to be appropriated
with reasonable certainty, and setting forth the name of each and every
owner, encumbrancer or other person interested in the same, so far as the
same can be ascertained by the public records, and praying the appoint­
ment of three competent, disinterested persons as viewers to ascertain and
determine the compensation to be made to such owners respectively, and 
= 
to all tenants, encumbrancers and others interested for the taking or affect­
ing such lands, and setting forth the estimated amount of merchantable
timber growing or being upon the lands of the applicant as designated
upon the map; that there is no other road or acquired right of way, and
that there is no other direct or feasible way from said lands to drivable,
tide or navigable waters or railroad whereon or whereby said timber can
be moved or hauled to market ; that said proposed road or chute is neees­ 
sary for the removal of said timber, and is a practicable and feasible route
for a logging chute or road. Said applicant or applicants shall also file
with such map and petition an undertaking, payable to the county wherein
said application is made, with at least two sureties, which undertaking
shall be approved by said clerk, and be conditioned that the applicant or
applicants will pay all costs and expenses that may be incurred by reason
of the filing of such petition, and all costs and expenses of viewing and
surveying such proposed road or chute, whether the same is located or
not.-Laws of 1887-8, p. 132. ~ 2. 
§ 1036. [2082. *] Notice of hearing on petition. Upon the receipt of
said map and petition by said clerk of said district court, said clerk shall 
issue a notice to each and every person named in said petition as owner,
encumbrancer, tenant or otherwise interested therein at least fifteen days
prior to the date set for the hearing of said petition, which notice shall no­
tify such persons of the filing of said petition and map, and the time the
same will come on for hearing before the judge of the district for appoint­
ment of viewers, and shall be under the seal of the said district court, and
signed by said clerk, and shall be in substantially the following form: 
Territory of Washington, }
County of --. ss. 
In the district court for -- County.
In the matter of the application of -- to establish a logging roadway 
in -- County. ·
To--. 
You will please take notice that -- has this day filed a petition and
map in the district court holding terms at -- in and for -- county, pray­
ing a location of a right of way for a logging road or chute through lands
now in your possession, situate in section -- township -- range -­
in said -- county, and that said application will come [on] to be heard
before the said judge of said court, at chambers, for appointment of
viewers to locate such right of way, on the -- day of--A. D. -­
at -- in the town of--, in said county and territory, at the -- hour
of-- - M. of said day, at which time you are required to appear and
file your claim for damages that you may consider you will sustain in case
said right of way is located, as by said map shown and in said petition
prayed; and further, you do then show cause, if any you have, why said
right of way should not be located as by said map shown and projected. 
Witness my hand and the seal of the said court of-- county this
-- day of--A. D. --, 
[Seal of district court.] ---, Clerk.
-Laws of 1887-8, p. 133, § 3. 
§ 1037. [2083.*l Bearing to be thirty days after filing petition. 
The time fixed in said notice for the bearing of said petition shall not be
less than thirty days after the filing of said petition or later than a day 
certain to be fixed by the judge of the said district court after the filing
of such map and petition ; provided, that after the filing of said map and
petition the said judge of said district court may continue the bearing on
said petition from time to time upon application of the petitioner for pur­
pose of allowing the completion of service of said notices.-Laws of 
1887-8, p. 134, § 4. 
§ 1038. (2084. *] Service of notice. Said notice shall be served by
delivery of a copy thereof, duly certified as such, to the person or persons
to whom the same is directed, in the same manner as is provided for the
service of a summons in a civil action in a district court of this territory,
and shall be returned to the clerk of said district court, and with him
filed, together with proof of service of the same, on or before the day set
for hearing of the petition ; provided, that in case any such notice cannot
be served because of the absence from the territory of the person to whom
it is directed, or because such person bas become a non-resident of the ter­
ritory, the same may be served in manner and form as is prescribed by the
laws of this territory for service upon non-residents.-Laws of 1887-8, p. 
134, § 5. 
§ 1039. (2085. *] Notice issued by clerk-Must be published. Said
clerk of the said district court shall also, at the time of the issuing of said
notices provided for in section three of this act [ 1036], issue a notice of the
application so made, giving the point of commencement and place of 
termination of said proposed road or chute, and designating the lands
though which the same will pass, in accordance with the applicant's map,
by sections, townships and ranges, the name of the applicants, and the
day and hour such application will come in for hearing and appointment
of viewers, and notifying any and all persons having or claiming any in­
terest in any of the said lands through which said road or chute is pro­
posed to be located to be and appear before the judge of the district court
of said district, at such time, and file their complaints for damages, or
show cause why said road should not be located as asked by petitioners,
w hich notice shall he under the seal of the district court, and shall be
publishedfor at least three consecutive weeks in a newspaper published
in the county where such application is made ; or, in case there be no
such newspaper, then in a newspaper published in an adjoining county
and of general circulation in the county where such application is made.
-Laws of 1887-8, p. 135, § ·6. 
§ 1040. (2086.*] Pleadings after petition. At any time after the
publication and service of said notice, and before the day therein set for 
hearing of the petition and appointment of viewers, any person or persons,
to whom any such notice is directed, if such person or persons own any in­
terest in any of the lands through which said proposed road or chute
would pass, if located as shown on applicant's map, or any person or per­
sons owning any interest in any such lands, or any tenant or encum­
brancer thereof, shall have the right, if such person so desire, to file with
said clerk a complaint for damages in such amount as be or she may
deem that such land would be injured by the building of said road or
chute, if the same was constructed on the line proposed by the map filed
by the applicant, and also any proposed change of such location, which
the complainant may deem more advantageous to his or her interests,
and which would not lessen the feasibility and direct11ess of said proposed 
road, and the amount of damages that would be sustained by the appli­
cant in case such proposed change of location were made, if any, and
may also file an answer, setting forth any facts adverse to the pro­
posed location of said road or chute, which complaint or answer shall be 
verified by the person filing the same.-Laws of 1887-8, p. 135, § 7. 
§ 1041. [2087.*] Bearing before judge-Three viewers. Upon the
day set for the hearing of such application the judge of the district court 
shall proceed to hear the allegations and testimony of all persons inter­
ested and shall determine and find the necessity, feasibility, and advisa­
bility of said proposed location, which finding and decision shall be in
writing, and all parties thereto feeling aggrieved by the same may em­ 
body said grievance in the appeal provided by section fifteen ( 15) [ 1048]
of this act. If said judge shall determine and find that said road or
chute is necessary, feasible and advisable he shall appoint three dis­
interested, competent persons as viewers to view and locate said proposed
right of way, and shall fix a day upon which he will receive the report of
said viewers. Said viewers shall then be sworn by the clerk of said
court, to discharge their duty as such viewers faithfully and impartially.
and said judge shall then fix a day when said viewers shall begin the
viewing andlocation of said road or chute, whereupon the clerk of said
court shall deliver to said viewers the petition and map of the applicant
and all complaints for damages and change of location of said chute or 
road.-Laws of 1887-8, p. 136, § 8. 
§ 1042. [2088.*] Duties of viewers. Upon the day so fixed by said
viewers to begin the viewing and location of said road or chute said view­
ers shall meet at the point designated on the petitioner's map as the place
of commencement of said road or chute and from said point view out and
locate a right of way for a logging road or chute to the point of terminus
fixed on the applicant's map. Said right of way and the width thereof
shall be designated and established by said viewers.-Laws of 1887-8, p. 
136, § 9. 
§ 1043. [2089.*] Same-Limitations. In all cases where no com­
plaint as to place of location is made, said viewers shall follow as nearly 
as possible the route proposed on the applicant's map, and in all cases
where complainant has asked said route to be changed, said viewers shall
carefully examine the proposed line of change as compared with the pro­
posed line fixed on applicant's map, and shall adjust and change such line
when the same can be so changed without materially increasing the cost
of construction of said road or chute, or rendering the same less practic­
able ; provided, that in no case shall such right of way be located through
a door-yard, barn-yard, hop-yard, garden or building of any kind, except
with the consent of the owners of such yard or orchard ; provided further,
that when such road or chute is located upon a lake or stream used or held
by its owners as a place of public or private resort, the owner or owners
of such road or chute, aftet ceasing to operate or run the same as provided
in this act, shall remove all obstructions within and upon such lake
or stream, caused by the construction or operation of such road or chute. 
And the applicant shall give bond in such amount as the judge of the
district court may deem sufficient for the faithful performance of the
terms of this proviso ; provided further, that the term " waters," or " nav­
igable or drivable waters," whenever used in this act, shall not be 
= 
held or construed to include an unmeandered lake of forty acres or less,
or held and used for the purpose of public resort, or outlet thereof, or any
private mill-dam.-Laws of 1887-8, p. 136, § IO. 
§ 1044. [2090.*] Viewers to assess amount of damages. Said
viewers, at the time of locating of said right of way, where no changes 
are made in proposed line of applicant's map, and damages have been
claimed by the owner, tenant, encumbrancer or other person or persons
interested in the land through which the same passes, shall fix and deter­
mine the damages suffered by the complainant, by reason of the opening
of said road or chute, which amount they shall fix as complainant's dam­
ages, and where a complainant has asked, and said viewers have changed,
the location of said proposed road or chute, they shall also fix and deter­
mine the damages suffered by the opening of the proposed road or chute
as charged by them, which amount they shall fix as complainant's dam­
ages.-Laws of 1887-8, p. 137, § 1 I. 
§ 1045. [2091.*] Viewers to select frontage-Report. Said viewers,
when they have completed the location of said road or chute to its pro­ 
posed terminus, shall, at such terminal point, select such space or front­
age on said water or road, and such space of width along such frontage,
as they shall deem necessary under all the circumstances presented, r for] 
a roadway and landing of logs and lumber hauled or transported over
said proposed road or chute, and shall assess [to] the owner, lessee, tenant,
encumbrancer, or other interested persons damaged in the same manner as
provided for the fixing of damages caused by locating of said right-of ..
way for a logging-road or chute ; Provided, Tlrat the provisions of this
act do not apply to cities or incorporated towns; and shall thereafter,
and on or before the day so set by the court for the filing. of their report,
return to the clerk of said court the petition, map,· and complaints so 
furnished them by the clerk, and filed [file] therewith their report show­
ing the location of said right of way, as fixed by them, and the amount
of damages, if any, allowed by them to each of the complainants, and
their opinion as to the necessity of the location of said road or chute to
enable the applicant to remove the timber described in his petition.­ 
Laws of 1887-8, p. 137, § 12. 
1046. [2092*.] Proceedings on report of viewers. Upon receipt of
said report of said viewers, if the judge of the said district court is sat­ 
isfied that the proposed road or chute is necessary, feasible, and advis­
able for the removal to market of the timber described in the applicant's
petition, the judge shall order any damages assessed by viewers' report
to be paid by the applicant, and in case the complainants, or either of
them, refuse to receive the amount assessed to them, that the sum be
deposited with the clerk of said court, subject to the order of the com­
plainant, and shall order the report of said viewers filed, and issue an
order allowing and authorizing a logging-road or chute to be opened,
built, and used on said right of way by the applicant.-Laws of 1887-8, 
p. 137, § 13. 
§ 1047 [2093*.] When applicant may build road-Pences. After
the making of said order by the said judge of said court, and the pay­ 
ment of the damage assessed by said viewers, the said applicant shall
have the right to at once, at his own cost, construct a logging-road or
chute over the right of way so fixed by said viewers, and whenever any 
road crosses any cleared ground or prairie which is inclosed by fence, the
person or persons operating said road shall at all times maintain good
and lawful gates, whenever said road intersects such fences, which gates
shall at an times be kept closed, except when the same are opened to
allow the passage of logs, spars, piles, or lumber, or supplies along said
road, or, in lieu thereof, said person or persons shall maintain a good and
lawful fence on either side of said road where the same passes through
such field or prairie.-Laws of 1887-8, p. 138, § 14. 
§ 1048. [2094. *] Complainant may appeal-Jury trial. Any com­
plainant who may conceive himself aggrieved by the amount of damages
assessed on him under the provisions of this act, may, within twenty 
days after the report of the viewers has been adopted by the i udge of
said court, and tender of the damages to him assessed thereby has been
made, appeal therefrom, and notice of such appeal shall be filed with the
clerk of said court, and immediately said case upon appeal shall be dock­
eted and be ready for trial as if the same had come up on appeal from a 
justice of the peace to such district court in the same manner as appeals
from justices of the peace, and if the appellant shall fail to recover a
judgment more favorable to him than the report appealed from, he shall
pay all costs. of such appeal.-Laws of 1887-8, p. 138, § 15. 
§ 1049. [2095.*] Applicant may appeal-Jury trial. Any appli­
cant who shall consider himself aggrieved by the amount of damages 
fixed by any viewers' report, to be paid to any person through whose land
a right of way may be fixed under this act, or when damages have been
allowed to any person who does not own any interest in the lands on
which damages have been so fixed, may appeal therefrom within twenty
days after the filing of the report to a jury of the district court of the
proper county, but before such appeal is perfected, where applicant is ap­
pealing from the amount of damages assessed, he shall first tender to the
party to whom such damages have been allowed the amount he deems 
- just and full compensation, and in case on such appeal, judgment is found
for any sum greater than the amount so tendered said appellant shall pay
all costs of such appeal. Such appeal shall be taken in the same manner
as provided in section fifteen (15) [1048] of this act, and the notice thereof
shall specify what part of the viewers' report is appealed from. -Laws 
of 1887-8, p. 138, § 16.
§ 1050. [2096.*] When road deemed abandoned. If at any time a 
road or chute, located under the provisions of this act, shall not be used
for logging purposes by the applicant or his assigns for a period of six
months, the same shall be deemed abandoned, and shall revert to the
person over whose lands the same has been constructed, and shall be
deemed, and said lease be deemed forfeited as hereinafter provided, and
shall not be again opened or used except by consent of the owners of the
land over which the same has been built, or by reopening the same under
the provisions of this act.-Laws of 1887-8, p. 139, § 17. 
§ 1051. [ 2097. *] Review of road for relocation. · If at any time any
viewers file a report of a location of a road or chute under the provisions 
of this act, which an applicant therefor, or complainant, does not
consider practicable or feasible, or not as practicable or feasible as could
have been located on the route proposed by him without causing greater
damage than the amount reported, such applicant or complainant may 
have such road re-viewed by other viewers, to be appointed by said court
upon filing his objections to said report, specifying wherein the same is
erroneous or defective.-Laws of 1887-8, p, 139, § 18. 
§ 1052. [2098.*] Viewers liable for neglect, etc. If any viewer or
viewers shall refuse or neglect to perform the duties required of them by
this act after they have qualified, or shall wilfully and knowingly alter 
or change a proposed line of road petitioned for under the provisions of
this act, so that the same shall be impracticable, or so that the same can­
not be constructed except at an unnecessary additional cost over the cost
of construction of the road proposed, said viewer or viewers shall be an­
swerable in damages to any one injured by their refusal orneglect.-Laws 
of 1887-8, p. 139, § 19. 
§ 1053. [2099.*] Penalty for obstructing logging ways. Any per­
son who shall willfully obstruct or damage any road or chute built under 
the provisions of this act, or who shall willfully interfere with the build­
ing thereof, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon convic-
tion thereof shall be punished for contempt of court in such sum as the
judge may deem correct and proper, and be liable for all damages caused. 
-Laws of 1887-8, p. 139, § 20. 
§ 1054. [2100.*] Applicant shall pay costs-Pees of. viewers. All
costs of viewing and locating a logging road or chute under the provis­ 
ions of this act, shall be borne by the applicant therefor, and the fees
and charges of the clerk of the district court shall be the same as are al­
lowed by law to the clerk of the district court for similar services, and the
fees of the viewers shall be the same as are allowed to viewers of proposed
county roads under the provisions of chapter ccxxix of the code of
Washington Territory.-Laws of 1887-8, p. 140, § 21. 
§ 1055. [2101.*] Roads shall be under control of county commis­
sioners. All roads or chutes located and opened under the provisions of 
this act shall be deemed public highways, and under the control and
charge of the board of county commissioners of the county wherein the
same are situate, in so far as said board shall have the right to vacate any
such road or chute when it appears to their satisfaction, either that the
same is being used for any other purpose than logging or lumbering, or
that the applicant or his assigns are not maintaining such road or chute
in manner. as by this act required; but the applicant or his assigns shall
at all times have the right to appeal to the district court of the proper
county from any order of a board of county commissioners vacating any
such road or chute at any time within twenty days after the making of 
such an order.-Laws of 1887-8, p. 140, § 22. 
§ 1056. [2102.*] Applicant must maintain road-Is a common car­
rier. All roads constructed under the provisions of this act shall be kept
up and maintained at the sole cost of the applicant or his assigns, and no 
county shall be liable in damages for any cause whatsoever arising upon 
said road ; and the owner or person operating any such road shall, when 
so requested, and upon delivery to him at rollway, at any point on such
road, transport from any such point to the terminus of said road, any logs,
spars or piles delivered by any person to such owner or person for trans­
portation, and shall be liable and subject to the same regulations as a com­
mon carrier as to such property. But before any such transportation is 
made by any such person or owner of such road, such person or owner
shall have the right to charge and collect from the person so offering such
logs, spars or piles for transportation a sum for freightage to be agreed upon
by them, which sum shall cot exceed one dollar per thousand feet, board
measure, for the first twenty miles of such transportation, and five cents 
per thousand feet, board measure, for each and every additional mile over
said twenty miles for transportation on said road. Nothing in this act
shall be construed so as to exempt any road or property named therein
from the operation of any law of this territory relating to taxation.­ 
Laws of 1887-8, p. 140, § 23.
~ 1057. [2103.*] How right of way may be leased-Not to be 
owned. The land so appropriated as prescribed in this act shall not be
by deed of conveyance vesting title, but the same shall be leased for such
term of years or other term, and upon such conditions as the viewers and
the person leasing the same agree upon, and when the person leasing
shall refuse to agree upon any terms, the viewers shall make the said
term and condition, subject, however, to the provisions of this act relating
to appeals from their decision.-Laws of 1887-8, p. 141, § 24. 
i 1058. Teu or more freeholders may petition
for road. 
i 1059- Bond for two hundred dollars to be 
filed with petition. 
i 1o6o. Court to appoint day for hearing-No­
tices-Appointment of ,.·iewers-Re­ 
monstrance. 
i 1o61. Duties of viewers. 
i 1o62. Report of viewers.
I 1o63, Hearing on report of viewers-Publica­ 
tion of notices. 
§ 1058. Ten or more freeholders may petition for road. When ten
or more freeholders of any county desire to have a county road viewed, 
laid out, surveyed and established, they shall file in the superior court of
the county a petition setting forth : The beginning and terminal points
of the proposed road, and the general route thereof, as near as may be ;
the width of the proposed road, which shall not be less than thirty feet,
nor more than sixty feet ; that the proposed road is a practicable one, and
that the petitioners are residents in the vicinity of said road and inter­
ested in the opening thereof; and that said road will be of general use 
and public benefit.-Laws of 1893, p. 237, § I. 
§ 1059. Bond for two hundred dollars to be flied with petition. 
At the time of filing such petition one or more of the signers of any such
petition shall enter into bond in the sum of two hundred dollars, payable
to the state for the use of the county, with two or more sureties to be ap­
proved by the county clerk, conditioned that the persons making applica­
tion for the proposed road will pay into the county treasury the amount
of all costs and expenses incurred in the view and survey of said proposed
road, in case the [petitioner] [petilt'on] therefor is not granted.-Laws 
of 1893, p. 237, § 2. 
CHAPTER LXXX. 
ESTABLISHMENT OF COUNTY ROADS. 
i 1004. Court may confirm award of viewers-
Appeals to jury. 
i 1o65. Payment of damages. 
i 1o66. Proceedings when road impracticable. 
i 1o67. Fees of viewers two dollars and fifty
cents a day. 
i 1o68. Court commissioner may act in place of
judge. 
i 1009- Clerk to furnish transcript to county
auditor. 
§ 106o. Court to appoint day for hearing-Notices-Appointment
of Viewen-Remonstrance. When the petition and bond have been
filed and the bond approved, the court shall fix a day for hearing the
petition for the appointment of viewers which shall not be less than ten
nor more than twenty days from the date of the approval of the bond.
Notice of such hearing shall be issued by the clerk and shall be posted
by the principal petitioner at least ten days before the day for such hear­
ing at the following places: One copy at the place where the court for
said county is held ; one copy at the beginning point on the proposed
road; two copies at two of the most public places in the vicinity of the
contemplated route of the proposed road. On the hearing of the petition,
if notice of such hearing has been regularly issued and posted, the court
shall appoint three disinterested persons, residents of the county, one of
whom may be the county surveyor, to view and lay out the proposed
road, and to assess the damages to the premises of any person through
whose land the proposed road will run ; and the court shall appoint a
time for the viewers to meet and view and lay out the proposed road :
Provided, That if a remonstrance is filed, and on the hearing of the peti­
tion and remonstrance it appears to the court that the proposed road will
be impracticable or that it is not of public necessity and will not be of
general use, the petition shall be dismissed.-Laws of 1893, p. 237, § 3. 
§ 1061. Duties of viewers. At the time and place named in the
order of the court the county surveyor and the viewers shall meet and
shall select two chainmen and not more than three other persons to act as
axmen and flagmen, and after the viewers and chainmen have been sworn
to faithfully and impartially discharge their respective duties, they shall
proceed to view, lay out and survey the proposed road.-Laws of 1893, 
P· 238, § 4· 
§ 1062. Report of viewen. Within ten days after making the view
and survey of the proposed road, the viewers must file a report of their
doingsin the matter, which shall show- 
1. The course, termini and length of the proposed road. 
2. A description of the land appropriated and the names of the owners
thereof, when known, and if the names of any of the land owners are
unknown, the report must state that fact. 
3. The estimate of damage to the owner of any land over which the
proposed road will run. . 
4. The names of land owners who consent to give the right-of-way,
and their written consent thereto. 
The report of the viewers shall be accompanied by the plat or map of
the county surveyor, which shall show the route of the proposed road as
surveyed, and the quantity or area of land necessary to be taken for the
proposed road belonging to any person through whose lands the said
road has been surveyed : Provided, That said road shall, so far as prac­
ticable, be upon section or quarter section lines.-Laws of 1893, p.
238, § 5. . 
§ 1o63. Bearing on report of viewers-Publication of notices.­ 
"When the report of the viewers and the map of the surveyor has been
filed in ·the office of the clerk of the court, the clerk shall give notice, as
herein provided, that on a day to be fixed by the court, the court will
hear the said petition and consider the report of the viewers and the
award of damages made by the viewers. Said notice shall be published 
for three consecutive weeks in a newspaper of general circulation in the
county, or if there be no newspaper published in the county, then to be
published iµ the nearest paper in ·the adjoining county, proof of which
publication shall be made by the affidavit of the foreman or publisher of
such newspaper nearest the road : Provided, That in no case shall the
cost of said notice exceed 5oc. per square for first insertion, and 25c. for
each additional insertion.-Laws of 1893, p. 239, § 6. 
§ 1o64. Oourt may confirm award of viewers-Appeals to jury. 
At the time fixed for the hearing of said petition, and the report of the
viewers thereon, the court shall proceed to bear the same and consider
the award of damages. If on the hearing it appears to the court that
the said road is practicable and that the same will be of general use and
public benefit, the court shall order that the road be established as sur­
veyed, and that the same be opened as may be provided by law for the
opening of public roads ; the court shall also order that the map of the
surveyor and the order of the court be filed in the office of the county
auditor. The court shall also direct the county auditor to draw his war­
rant on the county treasurer for the amount awarded to each person for
damages by reason of the said road being laid out and surveyed across
the premises of such person or persons: Provided, That if any person or
persons through whose premises said road bas been surveyed appear and
contest the award, the court may empanel a jury and hear testimony on
the subject.-Laws of 1893, p. 239, § 7. 
§ 1o65. Payment of damages. When the jury has performed the
duty required to be performed by it the court shall order the county
auditor to draw bis warrant on the county treasurer for the payment of
the damages so awarded, as provided in the preceding section.-Laws of 
1893, p. 239, § 8. . 
§ 1066. Proceedings when road impracticable. If it appears on
the hearing of said petition that the proposed road is impracticable, or 
that the same will not be of general use and public benefit, the petition
therefor shall be denied, and the costs of the hearing and of the view and
survey shall be taxed to the principal and sureties on the bond, and may 
be collected by execution as costs in otbercases.-Lawsof 1893, p. 239, § 9. 
§ 1o67. Pees of viewers two dollars and fifty ceJJ.ts per day. The
viewers, chainmen and other assistants herein provided for shall each re­
ceive two dollars and fifty cents per day while engaged in the view and 
survey of the road.-Laws of 18931 p. 240, § 10. 
§ 1068. Oourt commissioners may act ·in place of judge. In any
county where no superior judge resides a court commissioner may be ap­
pointed who shall have power to hear and determine all matters under
the provisions of this act which may properly be heard by the judge in
chambers.-Laws of 1893, p. 240, § 11. 
§ 1o69. Clerk to furnish transcript to county auditor. After the
establishment of any county road as hereinbefore provided, it shall be
the duty of the county clerk forthwith, or as soon as may be, to furnish
a complete transcript of the proceedings had in the establishment of such
road to the county auditor of such county, such transcript of record to be
copied by the auditor in the county road records of his office.-Laws of 
1893, p. 240, § 12. 
§ 1070. (671.] :ror what causes public corporations may sue.-An 
action at law may be maintained by any county, incorporated town,
school district or other public corporation of like character in this terri­
tory in its corporate name, and upon a cause of action accruing to it in its
corporate character and not otherwise, in either of the following cases : 
1. Upon a contract made with such public corporation. 
2. Upon a liability prescribed by law· in favor of such public corpora­
tion. 
3. To recover a penalty or forfeiture given to such public corporation.
4. To recover damages for an injury to the corporate rights or property 
of such public corporation.-Code of 1881, § 661.
City of N. Yakima v. Sup. Ct. King Co.-30 p. 1053-4 W. 655. 
§ 1071. [672.] :ror what causes they may be sued. An action may
be maintained against a county or other of the public corporations men­ 
tioned or described in the preceding section, either upon a contract made
by such county, or other public corporation in its corporate character
and within the scope of its authority, or for an injury to the rights of
the plaintiff arising from some act or omission of such county or other
public corporation.-Code of 1881, § 662. 
§ 1072 (673.] Bow pleadings by corporations verilled. In such
actions, the pleadings by the public corporation shall be verified by any 
of the officers representing it in its corporate capacity in the same man­
ner as if such officer was a defendant in the action, or by the agent or
attorney thereof, as in ordinary actions.--Code of 1881, § 663. 
§ 1073. [674.] Bow judgments against public corporations en­
forced. If judgment be given for the recovery of money or damages 
against such county or other public corporation, no execution shall issue
thereon for the collection of such money or damages, but such judgment in
such respect shall be satisfied as follows : 
1. The party in whose favor such judgment is given may at any time
thereafter, when execution might issue on a like judgment against a pri­
vate person, present a certified transcript of the docket thereof to the offi­
cer of such county or other public corporation who is authorized to draw
orders on the treasury thereof. 
2. On the presentation of such transcript such officer shall ·draw an
order on such treasurer for the amount of the judgment, in favor of the
party for whom the same was given. Thereafter such order shall be pre­
sented for payment and paid with like effect and in like manner as other
orders upon the treasurer of such county or other public corporation. 
3. The certified transcript herein provided for shall not be furnished by
the clerk unless at the time an execution might issue on such judgment if
the same were against a private person, nor until satisfaction of the same
judgment in respect to such money or damages be acknowledged as in ordi­
nary cases. The clerk shall include in the transcript the memorandum of
such acknowledgment of satisfaction and the entry thereof. Unless the
transcript contain such memorandum, no order upon the treasurer shall
issue thereon.--Code of 1881, ~ 664. 
§ 1074. [675.] Officers refusing to satisfy judgment may be at­
i&.ched. Should the proper officer of said corporation fail or refuse to
satisfy said judgment, as in the preceding section provided, an attachment 
may be issued to compel his performance of said duty. -Code of 1881, § 66 5. 
i 1075. When information may be filed against
person or corporation. 
i 1076. Proeecuting attorney to file informa­
tion. 
f 1077. Of what the information sha11 consist. 
f 10']8. Contents of information-Name of
proper person-Damages. 
i 1079. When defendant aha11 appear and an­
swer. 
I 1o8o. When the right of office is eontested-«
Judgment ahall _determine rigbts­
Damagee, etc, 
i 1o81. When relator take• ofli~, defendant
muat deliver all books, papers, etc. 
i 1o82. Defendant may be attached and Im­
prieoued for refusin,r to obey judg­ 
ment. 
§ 1075. [679.] When information may be flied against person or
corporation. An information may be filed against any person or corpor­ 
ation in the following cases : 
CHAPTER LXXXII. 
USURPATION OF OFFICE, FRANCHISES AND LSTTERS PATENT. 
i 1o83. Action for damages at any time within
one year. 
f 1o8.4. Judgment of ouster against usurper. 
i 1o85. Judgments against· corporations-­
Coste, etc.-Distributfon. 
i 1o86. Action to recover property forfeited to
state. 
I 1o87. Proeecuting attorney not liable for
coste-Relator liable, unless. 
i 1o88. When information for annulling letters
patent may be prosecuted. 
i 1o8g. Action may be by proeec:uting attorney
or private relator. 
1. When any person shall usurp, intrude upon, or unlawfully bold or exer­
cise any public office or franchise within the territory, or any office in any
corporation created by the authority of the territory. 
2. When any public officer shall have done or suffered any act, which,
· by the provisions of law, shall work a forfeiture of his office. 
3. When several persons claim to be entitled to the same office or fran­
chise, one information may be filed against any or all such persons in order
to try their respective rights to the office or franchise. 
4. When any association or number of persons shall act within this ter­
ritory as a corporation, without being legally incorporated. 
5. Or where any corporation do or omit acts which amount to a surren­
der or a forfeiture of their rights and privileges as a corporation, or where
they exercise powers not conferred by law.-Code of 1881, § 702. 
Mills vs. State, 2 W., 566; 27 P., 56o . 
. § 1076. (680.] Prosecuting attorney to file information., The in­
formation may be filed by the prosecuting attorney in the district court of 
the proper county, upon his own relation, whenever he shall deem it his
duty to do so, or sh all be directed by the court or other competent authority,
or by any other person on his own relation, whenever he claims an interest
in the office, franchise or corporation which is the subject of the informa­ 
tion. -Code of 1881, ~ 703. 
§ 1077. [681.] Of what the information shall consist. The informa­
tion shall consist of a plain statement of the facts which constitute the 
grounds of the proceedings, addressed to the court.-Code of 1881, § 704. 
§ rn78. [682.] Contents of information-Name of proper person­
Damages. Whenever an information shall be filed against a person for
usurping an office by the prosecuting attorney, he shall also set forth 
therein the name of the person rightfully entitled to the office, with an
averment of his right thereto ; and when filed by any other person he
shall show his interest in the matter, and he may claim the damages he
has sustained.-Code of 1881, § 705. 
§ 1079. [683.] When defendant shall appear and answer. When­
ever an information is filed, a notice signed by the relator shall be served
and returned, as in other actions. The defendant shall appear and an­ 
swer, or suffer default, and subsequent proceeding be had as in other
cases.-Code of 1881, § 706. 
State v. Mills 26 P. 56o, 2 W. 566. 
§ 1080. [~84.] When the right to ofllce is contested, judgment shall
determine rights, damages, etc. In every case wherein the right to an
office is contested, judgment shall be rendered upon the rights of the 
parties, and for the damages the relator may show himself entitled to, if
any, at the time of the judgment.-Code of 1881, § 707. 
§ 1081. [685.] When relator takes ofllce, defendant must deliver
all books, papers, etc. If judgment be rendered in favor of the relator,
he shall proceed to exercise the functions of the office, after he has been
qualified as required by law, and the court shall order the defendant to
deliver over all books and papers in his custody or within his power, be­
longing to the office from which he has been ousted.-Code of 1881, § 708. 
§ 1082. [686.] Defendant may be attached and imprisoned for
refusing to obey judgment. If the defendant shall refuse or neglect to
deliver over the books and papers pursuant to the order, the court or judge 
thereof shall enforce the order by attachment and imprisonment.-Code of 
1881, § 709.
§ 1o83. [687.] Action for damages at any time within one year. 
When judgment is rendered in favor of the plaintiff, he may, if he has not
claimed his damages in the information, have his action for the damages at
any time within one year after the judgment.-Code of 1881, § 710. 
§ 1084. [688.] Judgment of ouster against usurper. Whenever any
defendant shall be found guilty of any usurpation of or intrusion into, or
unlawfully exercising any office or franchise within this territory, or any
office in any corporation created by the authority of this territory, or when
any public officer thus charged shall be found guilty of having done or suf­
fered any act which by the provisions of the law shall work a forfeiture of
his office, or when any association or number of persons shall be found
guilty of having acted as a corporation without having been legally incor­
porated, the court shall give judgment of ouster against the defendant or
defendants, and exclude him or them from the office, franchise or corpo­
rate rights, and in case of corporations that the same shall be dissolved,
and the court shall adjudge costs in favor of the plaintiff.-Code of 1881, 
§ 71 I. 
§ 1085., [689.] Judgment against corporations-Costs, etc.-Dis­
tribution. If judgment be rendered against any corporation or against
any persons claiming to be a corporation, the court may cause the costs to
be collected by executions against the persons claiming to be a corporation
or by attachment against the directors or other officers of the corporation,
and shall restrain the corporation, appoint a receiver of its property and
effects, take an account and make a distribution thereof among the credit­
ors. The prosecuting attorney shall immediately institute proceedings for 
that purpo~.-Code of 1881, § 712. 
§ 1086. [690.] Action to recover property forfeited to state. 
Whenever any property shall be forfeited to the territory for its use, the
legal title shall be deemed to be in the territory from the time of the forfeit­
ure, and an information may be filed by the prosecuting attorney in the dis­
trict court for the recovery of the property, alleging the ground on which
the recovery is claimed, and like proceedings and judgment shall be had as
in civil action for the recovery of the property.-Code of 1881, § 713. 
§ 1o87. [691.j Prosecuting attorney not liable for costs-B.elator
liable unless. When an information is filedby the prosecuting attorney,
he shall not be liable for the costs, but when it is filed upon the relation of 
a private person such person shall be liable for costs unless the same are ad­
judged against the defendant.-Code of 1881, .§ 714. 
· § 1088. [692.] When information for annulling letters.patent may
be prosecuted. An information may be prosecuted for the purpose of annull­
ing or vacating any letters patent, certificate or deed, granted by the proper
authorities of this territory, when there is reason to believe that the same
were obtained by fraud or through mistake or ignorance of a material fact,
or when the patentee or those claiming under him have done or omitted an
act in violation of the terms on which the letters, deeds or certificates were
granted, or have by any other means forfeited the interests acquired under
the same.-Code of 1881, § 715. 
§ 1089. [693.] Action may be by prosecuting attorney or private
relator. In such cases, the information may be filed by the prosecuting 
attorney upon bis relation, or by any private person upon bis relation show­
ing his interest in the subject matter ; and the subsequent proceedings,
judgment of the court and awarding of costs, shall conform to the above
provisions, and such. letters patent, deed or certificate shall be annulled or
sustained, according to the right of the case.-Code of 1881, § 716. 
ACTIONS ON BONDS, FINES AND FORFEITURES. 
i 1090. Official bond security to state, corpora­
tion or individual. 
i 1091. Any person injured may maintain ac­
tion. 
I 1092. Private pereon must obtain leave be­ 
fore action. 
i 1093. Judgment for one delinquency shall
not preclude action for others. 
i 1094, Judgments against sureties not to ex- 
ceed amount of bond. 
CHAPTER LXXXIII. 
f 1095. 
i 1og6. 
i 1097. 
i 1og8. 
Who may recover fines and forfeitures.
Amount of judgment in action for
penalty.
Recovery of judgment by collusion
shall not bar action.
Fines and forfeitures paid to school
fund-Venue. 
§ 1090. [694.) Official bond security to state, corporation or indi­
vidual. The official bond of a public officer, to the territory, or to any
county, city, town or other municipal or public corporation of like charac­
ter therein, shall be deemed a security to the territory, or to such county, 
city, town or other municipal or public corporation, as the case may be, and
also to all persons severally, for the official delinquencies against which it
is_ intended to provide.-Code of 1881, § 652. 
§ 1091. [695.] Any person injured may maintain action. When a
public officer by official misconduct or neglect of duty shall forfeit his offi­
cial bond or render bis sureties therein liable upon such bond, any person
injured by such misconduct or neglect, or who is by law entitled to the ben­ 
efit of the security, may maintain an action at law thereon in his own name
against the officer and his sureties to recover the amount to which he may
by reason thereof be entitled.-Code of 1881, § 653. 
§ 1092. [696.] Private person must obtain leave before action. 
Before an action can be commenced by a plaintiff, other than the territory,
or the municipal or public corporation named in the bond, leave shall be
obtained of the court or judge thereof where the action is triable. Such
leave shall be granted upon the production of a certified copy of the bond
and an affidavit of the plaintiff, or some person in his behalf, showing the
delinquency. But if the matter set forth in his affidavit be such that, if
true, the party applying would clearly not be entitled to recover in the ac­
tion, the leave shall not be granted. If it does not appear from the com­
plaint that the leave herein provided for bas been granted, the defendant,
on motion, shall be entitled to judgment of non-suit; if it does, the de­
fendant may controvert the allegation, and if the issue be found in his
favor, judgment shall be given accordingly.-Code of 1881, § 654. 
Bartels v. Gove, 30 P .• 675; 4 W., 632. 
§ 1093. [697.] Judgment for one delinquency shall not preclude
action for others. A judgment in favor of a party for one delinquency
shall not preclude the same or another party from maintaining another ac­ 
tion on the same bond for another delinquency.-Code of 1881, § 655.
§ 1094. [698.] Judgments against sureties not to exceed amount of. 
bond. In an action upon an official bond, if judgments have been recov- 
ered \tgainst the surety therein other than by confession, equal in the
aggregate to the penalty or any part thereof of such bond, and if such re­
covery be established on the trial, judgment shall not be given against such
surety for an amount exceeding such penalty, or such portion thereof as is
not already recovered against him.-Code of 1881, § 656. 
§ 1095. [699.] Who may recover flnes .and forfeitures. Fines and
forfeitures may be recovered by an action at law in the name of the officer 
or person to whom they are by law given, or in the name of the officer or
person who by law is authorized to prosecute for them.-Code of 1881, 
§ 657.
§ 1096. [700.] Amount of judgment in action for penalty. When 
an action shall be commenced for a penalty, which by law is not to exceed a
certain amount, the action may be commenced for that amount, and if 
judgment be given for the plaintiff, it may be for such amount or less, in
the discretion of the court, in proportion to the offense. -Code of 1881, 
§ 658. 
§ 1097. [701.] Recovery of judgment by collusion shall not bar
action by other persons. A recovery of a judgment for a penalty or
forfeiture by collusion between the plaintiff and defendant, with intent to 
save the defendant wholly or partially from the consequences contemplated
by law, in case when the penalty or forfeiture is given wholly or partly to
the person who prosecutes, shall not bar the recovery of the same by an­
other person.-Code of 1881, §·659. 
§ 1098. (702.] Pines and forfeitures paid to school fund-Venue. 
Fines and forfeitures not specially granted or otherwise appropriated by
law, when recovered, shall be paid into the school fund of the proper
county. Whenever, by the provisions of law, any property real or per­
sonal shall be forfeited to the territory or to any officer for its use, the ac­
tion for the recovery of such property may be commenced in any county
where the defendant may be found or where such property may be.-Code 
of 1881, § 66o. 
CHAPTER LXXXIV. 
ACTIONS BY AND AGAINST EXECUTORS. 
i 1099- Executor, etc., may bring action for
wrongful death of decedent-Two
years-Five thousand dollars limit. 
i 1100. Representatives may bring actions on
all caUBCB surviving. 
i not. SeTcral executors treated as one party
defendant. 
i 1102. Judament by default not evidence of
suets, unless assets alleged in com-
plaint. 
i 1103. Under what conditions inventory may 
be contradicted. 
i 1104- No liability as executor de son tort-« 
Rcsponslble for all value received, etc. 
i 1105. Executor of executor-Limit of powers. 
i uo6. Arrest and attachment allowed against
executor for his own acts only. 
§ 1099. [703.] Executor, etc., may bring action for wrongful death
of d~cedent-Two years-Five thousand dollars limit. When the
death of a person is caused by the wrongful act or omission of another, the
personal representatives of the former may maintain an action at law there­
for against the latter, if the former might have maintained an action, had
he lived, against the latter, for an injury caused by the same act or omis­
sion. Such action shall be commenced within two years after the death,
and the damages therein shall not exceed five thousand dollars, and the 
amount recovered, if any, shall be administered as other personal property
of the deceased person.-Code of 1881, § 717. · 
See § 157, which supersedes this.
Graetz v. McKenzie, 28 P., 331; 3 W., 194- Hedrick v. Ry. Co., 30 P., 714; 4 
W., 400. Dahl v. Tibballs; 31 P., 869. Dennick v. Railroad Co., 103 U. S.,
n. N. P. Ry. Co. v. Ellison, 28 P., 263; 3 W., 225. 
§ 1100. [704.] Representatives may bring actions on all causes
surviving. All other causes of action by one person against another,
whether arising on contract or otherwise, survive to the personal represent­
atives of the former and against the personal representatives of the latter. 
Where the causeof action survives as herein provided, the executors or ad­
ministrators may maintain an action at law thereon against the party against
whom the cause of action accrued, or after his death against his personal 
representatives.-Code of 1881, § 718.
Slauson v. Schwabacher, JI P., 329; 4 W., 783. 
§ 1101. (705.] Several executors treated as one party defendant. 
In an action against several executors or administrators, they shall all be
considered as one person representing their testator or intestate, and judg­
ment may be given and execution issued against all of them who are de­
fendants in the action, although the notice be served only on part of them
in the same manner and with like effect as if served on all, except as pro­
vided in the next section.-Code of 1881, § 719. 
§ 1102. [706.] Judgment by default not evidence of assets, unless
assets alleged in complaint. When a judgment is given against
an executor or administrator for want of answer, such judgment is not to be
deemed evidence of assets in his hands, unless it appear that the complaint
alleged assets and that the notice was served upon· him.-Code of 
1881, § 720. 
§ 1103. [707.] Under what conditions inventory may be contra­
dicted. In an action against executors and administrators, in which the
fact of their having administered the estate of their testator or intestate, or
any part thereof, is put in issue and the inventory of the property of the 
deceased returned by them is given in evidence, the same may be contra­
dicted or avoided by evidence: 
I. That any property has been omitted in such inventory or was not
returned therein at its full value, or that since the return thereof such prop­
erty has increased in value. 
2. That such property has perished or been lost without the fault of such
executors or administrators, or that it has been fairly and duly sold by
them at a less price than the value so returned, or that since the return of
the inventory such property has deteriorated in value. In such action the
defendants cannot be charged for any things in action specified in their
inventory, unless it appear that they have been collected or with due dili­
gence might have been.-Code of 1881, § 721. 
§ 1104. (7o8.] No liability as executor de son tort-Responsible
for all value received, etc. No person is liable to an action as execu­
tor of his own wrong for having taken, received or interfered with the
property of a deceased person, but is responsible to the executors or. ad­ 
ministrators of such deceased person for the value of all property so taken
or received, and for all injury caused by his interference with the estate
of the deceased.-Code of 1881, § 722. 
§ r rog. (709.] Executor of executor-Limit of powers. An execu­
tor of an executor has no authority as such to commence or maintain an 
action or proceeding relating to the estate of the testator of the first exec­
utor, or to take any charge or control thereof.-Code of 1881, § 723. 
§ 1106. [710.] Arrest and attachment allowed against executor for
his own acts only. In an action against an executor or administrator as
such, the remedies of arrest and attachment shall not be allowed on account 
of the acts of his testator or intestate, but for his own acts as such executor
or administrator, such remedies shall be allowed for the same causes in
the manner and with like effect as in actions at law generally.-Code of 
1881, § 724. 
I 1107. Sureties may require principal to bring
action. 
f uo8. If principal creditor refuse surety dis­
charged. 
f u09. Surety may have question of surety­
ship tried separately. 
I 1110. If surety prevails, levy to be first on
prindpal'a property. 
§ 1107. [756.] Sureties may require principal to bring action. 
Any person bound as surety upon any contract in writing for the pay­
ment of money or the performance of any act, when the right of action
has accrued, may require by notice in writing the creditor or obligee
forthwith to institute an action upon the contract.-Code of 1881, § 644. 
§ 11o8. [757.] If principal creditor refuse surety discharged. If
the creditor or obligee shall not proceed within a reasonable time to bring his
action upon such contract, and prosecute the same to judgment and exe­ 
cution, the surety shall be discharged from all liability thereon.-Code of 
1881, § 645. 
CHAPTER LXXXV. 
ACTIONS FOR THE PROT~CTION OF SURETIES. 
i nu. Surety entitled to benefit of judgment
against principal. 
i rrra, Contribution among aureties. 
i n13. Surety must defend action when noti­
fied by principal. 
i 1114. Heirs, executors, ete., entitled to the
benefit of this chapter. 
§ 1109. [758.] Surety may have question of suretyship tried sep­
arately. When any action is brought against two or more defendants
upon a contract, any one or more of the defendants being surety for the
others,. the surety may, upon a written complaint to the court, cause the
question of [securityship] [sureryskzp] to be tried and determined upon the
issues made by the parties at the trial of the cause, or at any time before or
after the trial, or at a subsequent term, but such proceedings shall not affect
the proceedings of the plaintiff.-Code of 1881, § 646. 
§ 1110. [759.] If surety prevail levy to be first on principal's
property. If the finding upon such issue be in favor of the surety, the
court ·shall make an order directing the sheriff to levy the execution upon
and first exhaust the property of the principal before a levy shall be made 
upon the property of the surety, and the clerk shall indorse a memorandum
of the order upon the execution.-Code of 1881, § 647. 
§ 1111. r 76o.] Surety entitled to benefit of judgment against prin­
cipal. When any defendant, surety in a judgment or special bail or re­
plevin, or surety in a delivery bond or replevin bond, or any person being
surety in any bond whatever, has been or shall be compelled to pay any 
judgment, or any part thereof, or shall make any payment which is applied
upon such judgment by reason of such suretyship, or when any sheriff or
other officer or other surety upon his official bond shall be compelled to pay 
any judgment or any part thereof by reason of any default of such officer,
except for failing to pay over money collected, or for wasting property levied
upon, the judgment shall not be discharged by such payment, but shall
remain in force for the use of the bail, surety, officer or other person making
such payment, and after the plaintiff is paid, so much of the judgment as
remains unsatisfied may be prosecuted to execution for his t;se.-Code of 
1881, ~ 648. 
§ 1112. (761.] Contribution among sureties. .Any one of several
judgment defendants, and any one of several replevin bail having paid and
satisfied the plaintiff, shall have the remedy provided in the last section 
against the co-defendants and co-sureties to collect of them the ratable pro­
portion each is equitably bound to pay.-Coa'e of 1881, § 649. 
§ 1113. (762.] Surety must defend action when notified by princi­
pal. No surety or his representative shall confess judgment or suffer judg­
ment by default in any case where he is notified that there is a valid de­ 
fense, if the principal will enter himself defendant to the action and tender
to the surety or his representatives good security to indemnify him, to be
approved by the court.-Code of 1881, § 650. 
§ 1114. (763.] Heirs, executors, etc., entitled to benefits of this chapter. The foregoing provisions of this chapter shall extend to heirs,
executors and administrators of deceased persons, but the provisions of sec­
tion six hundred and forty-five [ 1108] shall not operate against persons
under legal disabilities.-Code oj 1881, § 651. 
CHAPTER LXXXVI. 
i 1115. Every person entitled to benefit of writ. 
i 1116. Application made by petition-Con·
tents. 
I 1117. Writ granted by any judge of either
court. 
~ 1118. Writ directed to officer having custody
of person-Substance of. 
i 1119. Writ must be delivered to sheriff with·
out delay. 
i 1120. Must be served by sheriff without
delay. 
i 1121. How service made when person not
found. 
f 1122. Immediate return required-Attach­
ment for failure. 
i 1123. Return-Party must be produced. 
~ 11:24. Proceedings after return-Pleadings­
Amendments. 
HABEAS CORPUS. 
~ 1125. Proceeding is summary-When party
discharged. 
i 1126. When legality of commitment not to
be questioned. 
f n27. When party admitted to bail instead of
discharged. 
f 1128. Writ may be had for the purpose of
giving bait-Notice. 
i 1129. Power of court to compel attendance of
witness, etc. 
i 1130. Officer incurs no liability to civil action
by obeying. 
I 1131. Warrant may issue for immediate cus­ 
tody of person 'if danger of his re­
moval. 
f 113:z. Person causing unwarranted restraint
may be arrested. 
I 1133'.. Perapn arrested to be brought before
court. 
i IIJ4. Temporary orders pending proceed-
ings. . 
g 1135. Writ and process may be served on
Sunday. 
i 1136. Writ and process issued by cterk­
Served forthwith. 
i 1137. Writ to be granted parents, guardians.
etc. 
§ II 15. (711.] Every person entitled to benefit of writ. Every per­
son restrained of his liberty under any pretense whatever, may prosecute a 
writ of ltabeas corpus to inquire into the cause of the restraint, and shall be
delivered therefrom when illegal.-Code of 1881, § 666. 
§ 1 116. [712.] Application ma.de by petition -Contents. Appli­
cation for the writ shall be made by petition, signed and verified either by 
the plaintiff or by some person in his behalf, and shall specify: 
1. By whom the petitioner is restrained of his liberty, and the place
where (naming the parties if'they are known, or describing them if they
are not known), 
2. The cause .or pretense of the restraint according to the best of the
knowledge and belief of the applicant. 
3. If the restraint be alleged to be illegal, in what the illegality consists.
-Code of 1881, § 667. 
§ 1117. [713.] Writ granted by any judge of either court. Writs
of habeas corpus may be granted by the supreme court or district court, or 
by any judge of either court, whether in term or vacation, and upon appli­
cation the writ shall be granted without delay.-Code of 1881, § 668. 
~ 1118. [714.] Writ directed to officer having custody of person­
Su'bstance of. • The writ shall be directed to the officer or party having
the person under restraint, commanding him to have such person before the 
court or judge at such time and place as the court or judge shall direct to 
do and receive what shall be ordered concerning him, and have then and
there the writ. -Code of 1881, § 669. 
§ 1119. [715. Writ must be delivered to sheriff without delay. 
If the writ be directed to the sheriff, it shall be delivered by the clerk
to him without delay.:._Code of 1881, § 670. 
§ 1120. [716.] Must be served by sheriff without delay. If the writ
be directed to any other person, it shall be delivered to the sheriff and 
shall be by him served by delivering the same to such person without de­
lay.-Code. of 1881, § 671. 
§ 1121. [717.] How service made when person not found. If the
person to whom such writ is directed cannot be found or shall refuse ad­ 
mittance to the sheriff, the same may be served by leaving it at the resi­
dence of the person to whom it is directed, or by posting the same on some
conspicuous place, either of [at] his dwelling house or where the party is
confined or under restraint.-Code of 1881,_ § 672. · 
§ 1122. [718.] Immediate return required-Attachment for fail­
ure. The sheriff or other person to whom the writ is directed shall make
immediate return thereof, and if he refuse after due service to make re­ 
turn, the court shall enforce obedience by attachment.-Code of 1881, 
§ 673. 
§ 1123. [7 i9.] Return-Party must be produced. The return must
be signed and verified by the person making it, who shall state : 
1. The authority or cause of the restraint of the party in his custody. 
2. If the authority shall be in writing, he shall return a copy and pro­
duce the original on the hearing. 
3. If he has had the party in his custody or under his restraint, and
has transferred him to another, he shall state to whom, the time, place
and cause of the transfer. He shall produce the party at the hearing
unless prevented by sickness or infirmity, which must be shown in the 
retum.-Code of 1881, § 67 4. 
§ 1124. [720.] Proceedingsa.fterreturn-Plea.dings-Amendments. 
The court or judge, if satisfied of the truth of the allegation of sickness 
or infirmity, may proceed to decide on the return, or the hearing may be
adjourned until the party can be produced, or for other good cause. The
plaintiff may except to the sufficiency of, or controvert the return or any part thereof, or allege any new matter in evidence. The new matter shall
be verified, except in cases of commitment on a criminal charge. The re­ 
turn and pleadings may be amended without causing a delay.-Coa'e of
1881, § 675. 
§ 1125. [721.] Proceeding is summary-When party discharged. 
The court or judge shall thereupon proceed in a summary way to hear and
determine the cause, and if no legal cause be shown for the restraint or
the continuation thereof, shall discharge the party.-Coa'e of 1881, § 676. 
§ 1126. [722.] When legality of commitment not to be questioned. 
No court or judge shall inquire into the legality of any judgment or pro­
cess whereby the party is in custody, or discharge him when the term of
commitment has not expired, in either of the cases following : 
1. Upon any process issued on any final judgment of a "court of compe­
tent jurisdiction. 
2. For any contempt of any court, officer or body having authority in
the premises to commit; but an order of commitment, as for a contempt
upon proceedings to enforce the remedy of a party, is not included in any
of the foregoing specifications. 
3. Upon a warrant issued from the district [court] upon an indictment
or information.-(ode of 1881, § 677. 
In re Lybarger, 2 W., 131; 25 P., 1075. 
§ 1127. [723.] When party admitted to bail instead of discharged. 
No person shall be discharged from an order of commitment issued by any
judicial or peace officer for want of bail, or in cases not bailable on account
of any defect in the charge or process, or for alleged want of probable
cause; but in all cases the court or judge shall summon the prosecuting
witnesses, investigate the criminal charge, and discharge, admit to bail or
re-commit the prisoner, as may be just and legal, and recognize witnesses
when proper.-Code of 1881, § 678. 
§ 1128. [724.] Writ may be had for the purpose of giving bail­
Notice. The writ may be had for the purpose of admitting a prisoner to
bail in civil and criminal actions. When any person has an interest in the 
detention, and the prisoner shall not be discharged until the person having
such interest is notified.-Code of 1881, § 670. 
§ 1129. [725.] Power of court to compel attendance of witnesses,
etc. The court or judge shall have power to require and oompel the at­
tendance of witnesses, and to do all other acts necessary to determine the
case.-Code of 1881, § 680. · · 
§ 1130. [726.] Officer incurs no liability to civil action by obeying. 
No sheriff or other officer shall be liable to a civil action for obeying any
writ of habeas corpus, or order of discharge made thereon.-Coa'e of 1881, 
§ 681. 
§ 1131. [727.] Warrant may issue for immediate custody of per­
son, if danger of his removal. Whenever it shall appear by affidavit
that any one is illegally held in custody or restraint, and that there is
good reason to believe that such person will be carried out of the j uris­ 
diction of the court or judge before whom the application is made, or
will suffer some irreparable injury before compliance with the writ can be 
enforced, such court or judge may cause a warrant to be issued reciting
the facts, and directed to the sheriff or any constable of the county, com­
manding him to take the person thus held in custody or restraint, and
forthwith bring him before the court or judge to be dealt with according
to the law.-Code of 1881, § 682. 
§ 1132. [728.] Person causing unwarranted restraint may be ar-.
rested. The court or judge may also, if the same be deemed necessary,
insert in the warrant a command for the apprehension of the person charged 
with causing the illegal restrairit.-Code of 1881, § 683. 
§ n33. [729.] Such person m~y be arrested. The officer shall exe­
cute the writ by bringing the person therein named before the court or 
judge, and the like return of proceedings shall be required and had as in
case of writs of habeas corpus.-Code of 1881, § 684. 
§ 1134. [730.] Temporary orders pending proceedings. The court
or judge may make any temporary orders in the cause or disposition of the 
party during the progress of the proceedings that justice may require.
The custody of any party restrained may be changed from one person to 
another, by order of the court or judge.-Code of 1881, § 685. 
· § n35. [731.] Writs and process may be served on Sunday. Any
writ or process authorized by this chapter may be issued and served, in 
cases of emergency, on Sunday.-Code of 1881, § 686. 
See ~ 63. 
§ 1136. [732.] Writs and proceBB issued by clerk-Served forth­
with-Amendments allowed. All writs and other process authorized by
this chapter shall be issued by the clerk of the court, and sealed with the
seal of such court, and shall be served and returned forthwith, unless the
court or judge shall specify a particular time for such return. And no writ
or other process shall be disregarded for any defect therein, if enough is
shown to notify the officer or person of the purport of the process. Amend­
ments may be allowed and temporary commitments when necessary .-Code 
of 1881, ~ 687. 
§ 1137. [733.] Writs to be granted parents, guardians, etc. Writs
of habeas torpus shall be granted in favor of parents, guardians, masters 
and husbands, and to enforce the rights, and for the protection of infants
and insane persons , and the proceedings shall in all cases conform to the 
provisions of thi~ chapter.-Code of 1881, § 688. 
§ 1138. [734.] May be issued by supreme or superior court. Writs
of mandate and prohibition may issue from the supreme and district courts 
of the state, but such writs shall issue from the supreme court only when
necessary for the exercise of its functions and powers. In the superior
court the writ may be made returnable either in court or before the judge
at chambers, and may be tried before the court or judge.-Code of 1881, 
§ 689. 
State v. Jones, 27 P., 452; 2 W., 662. State v. Superior Ct. King Co., 3 W., 705;
29 P., 213. Chalk v. White, 29 P., 979; 4 W., 156. State v. Hunter, 30 P .•
642; 4 W., 651. Chambers v. Territory, 3 W. T., 28o; 13 P., 336. Elder v.
Territory, 3 W. T., 438; 19 P., 29. 
§ 1139. [735.] When superior court has exclusive jurisdiction. 
The district court, or judge thereof, of the county wherein the defendant,
if a public officer or body, exercise his or its functions, or if a private per­
son or corporation, wherein such person resides or may be found, or such
private corporation might be sued in an action, shall have exclusive juris­
diction of the proceeding, except that the supreme court shall have juris­
diction in all cases where it may be necessary or proper to enable such court
to maintain appellate jurisdiction.-Code of 1881, § 690. 
§ 1140. [736.] To whom issued-May compel performance of duty. 
Writs of mandate may be issued to any inferior court, corporation, board,
officer or person, to compel the performance of an act which the law
specially enjoins as a duty resulting from an office, trust or station. But
though the writ may require such court, corporation, board, officer or per­
son, to exercise its or his judgment, or proceed to the discharge of any of
its or his functions, it shall not control judicial discretion. The writ shall
not be issued in any case where there is any other plain and adequate.rem­ 
edy.-Code of 18811 § 691.
§ 1141. [737. Issued on affidavit and motion-Return must be 
made-Oontempt. The writ shall be issued upon affidavit and motion,
and shall be attested and sealed, and made returnable as the court shall
direct, and the person, body or tribunal, to whom the same shall be di­
rected and delivered, shall make return, and for neglect to do so, shall be 
proceeded against as for contempt.-Code of 1881, § 692. 
§ 1142. [738.] May be either peremptory or alternative. The first
writ shall be in the alternative or peremptory, as the court shall direct.­ 
Code of 1881, § 693. 
Parrish vs. Reed, 2 W., 481; 27 P., 230; 28 P., 372. 
§ u43. [739.] Trial of issues upon return, as in civil actions. 
Whenever a return shall be made to any such writ, issues of law and
fact may be joined, and like proceedings shall be had for the trial of
issues and rendering judgment as in civil actions.-Code of 1881, § 694. 
§ 1144. [7 40.] Judgment for plaintiff' - Damages - Peremptory 
writ. In case a verdict shall be found for plaintiff when the writ is in
the [alternate] [alternative], or if judgment be given for him, he shall re­
cover damages asin an action for a false return, against the party mak- 
ing the return, and a peremptory writ shall be granted without delay.­
Code of 1881, § 695. 
§ 1145. [741.] General power of court over proceedings, same as
civil actions. The court shall have the same power to enlarge the time
of making a return and pleading to such writ, and for filing any subse­ 
quent pleadings, and to continue such cause, as in civil actions.-Code of 
1881, § 696. 
§ 1146. [742.] Obedience enforced by flne, imprisonment or both. 
Obedience to such writ may be enforced by attachment and fine and im­
prisonment, or both.-Code of 1881, § 697. 
§ 1147. [743.] Writ of prohibition shall command party to cease. 
The writ of prohibition shall command the court or party to whom it
shall be directed to refrain from any further proceedings in the matter
therein specified, until the return of the writ and the further order of the
court thereon, and upon the return, to show cause why they shall not be
absolutely restrained from further proceeding in the matter.-Code of 1881, 
§ 698.
State v. Super. Ct. King Co., 30 P., 1053. 
§ 1148. [744.] Judgment shall prohibit or authorize party to con­
tinue. The court shall render judgment either that a prohibition abso­
lute, restraining the court and party proceeding in the matter, do issue, 
or authorizing the court and party to proceed in the matter in question.­
Code of 1881, § 699. 
§ 1149. [745.] Costs as in civil actions. Costs shall be awarded in
these proceedings as in civil actions.-Code of 1881, § 700. 
§ II50. [746.] Appeals may be taken to supreme court. From the
judgment of. the district court, or judge thereof, refusing or directing 
such writs, an appeal or writ of error may be taken to the supreme court
in like manner and effect as in civil actions.-Code of 1881, § 701. 
State v. Super. Ct. Whatcom Co., 25 P., 1007; 2 W., 9. 
g u51. Action may be begun when defendant
about to leave the state-Intent to de­ 
fraud. 
i 115:2. Affidavit and complaint-Proceedings
as in other cases. 
i 1153. Clerk to issue order of arrest-Plaintiff
must file hood. 
i 1154. Defendant must give bond for appear-
ance or be imprisoned. 
I 1155. Surety for performance in place of
bail. 
i 1156. Sureties entitled to this proceeding, 
i 1157. Defendant has right of habeas corpus.
I 11sS, Justice of the peace has jurisdiction. 
i 1159. Venue wherever defendant is found. 
§ 1151. [747.] Action may be begun when defendant about to
leave the state-Intent to defraud. Actions may be commenced upon 
any agreement in writing before the time for the performance of the con­
tract expires, when the plaintiff or his agent shall make and file an affi­
davit with the clerk of the proper court, that the defendant is about to
leave the territory without performing or making provisions for the per­
formance of the contract, taking with him property, moneys, credits or 
effects subject to execution, with intent to defraud plaintiff.-Code of 
1881, § 636. 
CHAPTER LXXXVIII. 
NE EXEAT. 
§ 1152. [748.] Affidavit and complaint-Proceedings as in other
cases. At the time of filing the affidavit the plaintiff shall also file his·
complaint in the action and thenceforth the action shall proceed as other 
actions at law, except as otherwise provided in this chapter.-Laws of 
I 89 I , p. 8 I, § I. 
§ 1153. [749.] Clerk to issue order of arrest-Plaintiff must file
bond. Upon such affidavit and complaint being filed, the clerk shall 
issue an order of arrest and bail, directed to the sheriff, which shall be
issued, served and returned in all respects as such orders in other cases;
before such order shall issue the plaintiff shall file in the office of the
clerk a bond, with sufficient surety, to be approved by the clerk, condi­
tioned that the plaintiff will pay the defendant such damages and costs
as he shall wrongfully sustain by reason of the action, which sureties
shall justify as bail upon an arrest.-Laws of 1891, p. 81, § 2. 
§ 1154. (7 50.] Defendant must give bond for appearance or be im- .
prisoned. The sheriff shall require the defendant to enter into a bond, 
with sufficient surety, personally to appear within the tinie allowed by
law for answering the complaint, and to abide the order of the court ;
and in default thereof the defendant shall be committed to prison until
discharged in due course of law; such special bail shall be liable for the
principal, and shall have a right to arrest and deliver him up, as in other
cases and the defendant may: give other bail.-Laws of 1891, p. 81, § 3. 
§ 1155. [751.] Security for performance in place of bail. Instead
of giving special bail, as above provided, the defendant shall be entitled 
to his discharge from custody if he will secure the performance of the
contract to the satisfaction of the plaintiff.-Code of 1881, § 639. · 
§ 1156. (752.] Sureties entitled to this proceeding. This proceed­
ing may be had in favor of any surety or other person jointly bound 
with the defendant. It may also be prosecuted by the person in whose
favorthe contract exists, against any one or more of the persons bound
thereby, upon filing such affidavit, when the co-contractors are non-resi­
dents or probably insolvent, or at the request of any of them when they
are residents and .solvent.-Code of 1881. § 640. 
§ 1157. [7 53.] Defendant has right of habeas corpus. The defe~d­
ant may have the same remedy by writ of habeas corpus as in other cases 
of arrest and bail.-Code of 1881, § 641. 
§ 1158. [754.] Justice of the peace has jurisdiction. The proceed­
ings provided for in this chapter _may be had before justices of the peace 
in all cases within their jurisdiction.-Laws of 1891, p. 82, § 4.
§ 1159. (755.] Venue wherever defendant is found. The affidavit 
and bond may be filed, and proceedings had in any district where the de­
fendants may be found.-Code of 1881, § 643. 
§ 116o. r164.] Oauses for which divorce may be granted. Divorces
may be granted by the superior court on application of the party. injured, 
for the following causes : 
1 .. When the consent to the marriage of the party applying for the di­
vorce was obtained by force or fraud, and there has been no subsequent
voluntary cohabitation. ~ 
2. For adultery on the part of the wife or the husband, when unforgiven,
and application is made within one year after it shall come to the knowledge 
· of the party applying for divorce. · 
3. Impotency.
4. Abandonment for one year.
5. Cruel treatment of either party by the other, or personal indignities 
rendering life burdensome. . 
6. Habitual drunkenness of either party, or ·the neglect or refusal of the
husband to make suitable provisions for his family. 
7. The imprisonment of either party in the penitentiary, if complaint is
filed during the term of such imprisonment; and a divorce may be granted
upon application of either party for any other cause deemed by the court
sufficient, and the court shall be satisfied that the parties can no longer live 
together. - 
8. In case of incurable chronic mania or dementia of either party, having
existed for ten years or more, the court may, in its discretion, grant a di, 
voree.-Laws of 1891, p. 42, § I. ·
Hickman vs. Hickman, 24 P., 445; I W., 257. 
§ II6I. [765.] When marriage may be annulled. When there is any
doubt as to the facts rendering a marriage void, either party may apply for, 
and on proof obtain, a decree of nullity of marriage.-Laws oj-1893, p. 42, § 2. 
§ 1162. [766.] One year's residence required. Any person who has
been a resident of the territory for one year may file his or her complaint
for a divorce or decree of nullity of marriage under oath in the district
court of the county where he or she may reside, and like proceedings shall
be had thereon as in civil cases.-Code of 1881, § 2002. 
§ 1163. [767.] Proof required before divorce will be granted. 
When the defendant does not answer, or answering, admits the allegations
in the complaint, the court shall require proof before granting a divorce or 
a decree of nullity.-Code of 18811 § 2003. , 
§ 1164. [768.] Defendant may file cross-complaint with answer. 
The defendant may, in addition to his or her answer, file cross-complaint
for divorce, and the court may in such case grant a divorce, if any, in
favor of either party, or as an application of both.-Code of 1881, § 2004. 
'§ II65. [769.] Both parties deemed applying in such cases. Both
parties shall be considered as applying for a divorce when the complaints 
of both are filed in the same action, and when the defendant, by his or
her cross-complaint, also applies for a divorce.-Laws of 1891, p. 42, § 3. 
§ 1166. [770.] Court may make orders respecting property and
children pending suit. Pending the action for divorce the court or
judge thereof may make, and by attachment enforce, such orders for the 
disposition of the persons, property and children of the- parties as may be
deemed right and proper, and such orders relative to the expenses of such
action as will insure to the wife an efficient preparation of her case, and
a fair and impartial trial thereof': and on decreeing or refusing to decree
a divorce, the court may, in its discretion, require the husband to pay all
reasonable expenses of the wife in the prosecution or defense of the ac­
tion when such divorce has been so granted or refused, and give judg­ 
ment therefor.-Laws of 1891, p. 43, § 4. 
Prouty v. Prouty, 29 P., 1048; 4 W., 174. Tli~mdyke v. Thorndyke, I W. T.,
175. 
§ 1167. [771.] What decree shall contain. In granting a divorce
the court shall also make such disposition of the property of the parties 
as shall appear just and equitable, having regard to the respective merits
of the parties, and to the condition in which they will be left by such
divorce, and to the party through whom the property was acquired, and
to the burdens imposed upon it for the benefit of the children, and shall
make provision for the guardianship, custody, and support and education 
of the minor children of such marriage.---Laws of 1891, p. 43, § 5. 
Webster v. Webster, 2 W., 417; 26 P., 864. Fields v. Fields, 2 W., 441; 27 P.,
267. Lee v. Lee, 3 W., 236; 28 P., 355. State v. Sachs, 3 W., 371; 29 P., 
2<>4. 
§ 1168. (772.] Marriage dissolved as to both parties. Whenever
judgment of divorce from tlie bonds of matrimony is granted by the 
courts in this state, the court shall order a full and complete dissolution of
the marriage as to both parties.-Laws of 1891, p. 43, § 6. 
Smith v. Fife, 30 P., 1059; 4 W., 702. 
NOTE: The last part of this section of the law of 1891, is omitted as it is super­
ceded by the act of 1893. See ~ 1173. 
§ 1169. (773.] Name of woman may be changed. In all actions for
divorce, if a divorce be granted, the court may, for just and reasonable 
cause, change the name of the female, who shall thereafter be known and
called by such name as the court shall in its order or decree appoint.-Laws 
of 1891, p. 43, § 7.
§ 1170. [774.] Prosecuting attorney must defend uncontested 
cases. Whenever a complaint for divorce remains undefended, it shall be
the duty of the prosecuting attorney to resist such complaint, but no pros­
ecuting attorney shall be employed in or allowed to conduct any action for
a divorce on the part of the plaintiff or applicant in the courts of this state;
nor shall any prosecuting attorney be allowed to resist a complaint for di­
vorce in those cases where the defendant does not appear or appearing ad­
mits the allegations of the complaint, if the attorney for the applicant is a
partner of such prosecuting attorney in the practice of law or keeps his of­
fice with such prosecuting attorney; but in all such cases the court or
judge before whom the case is to be heard shall appoint an attorney to re­
sist the complaint, who shall be entitled to the compensation allowed by 
law to prosecuting attorneys in such cases.-Laws of 1891, p. 43, § 8. 
§ 1 i71. [775.] Appeal-Trial de novo in supreme court. In all in­
stances where a district court shall grant a divorce, it shall be for cause dis- 
tinctly stated in the complaint, and proved and found by the court, and the
court shall state the facts found, upon which the decree is rendered; and
when either party shall signify a desire to appeal from any of the orders of
the court, in the disposition of the property, or of the children, the court
shall certify the evidence adduced on the trial, and the supreme court shall 
be possessed of the whole case as fully as the district court was, and may
reverse, modify or affirm said judgment according to the real merits of the
case.-Code of 1881, § 2011. 
Proucy vs. Prouty, 29 P., 1049; 4 W., 174. 
§ 1172. [776.] No jury allowed. The practice in civil actions shall
govern all proceedings in the trial of actions for divorce, except that trial 
by jury is dispensed with.-Laws of 1891, p. 44, § 9. 
Prouty v. Prouty, 29 P., 1049; 4 W., 174. 
§ 1173. Marriages within six months after decree void. When­
ever a judgment or decree of divorce from the bonds of matrimony is
granted by the courts in this state, neither party thereto shall be capable 
of contracting marriage with a third person until the period in which an
appeal may be taken has expired; and in case an appeal is taken then
neither party shall intermarry with a third person until the cause has
been fully determined ; and it shall be unlawful for any divorced person to
intermarry with any third person within six months from the date of the
entry of the judgment or decree granting the divorce, or in case an ap­
peal is taken it shall be unlawful to contract such marriage until judg­
ment be rendered on said appeal in the supreme court. All marriages
contracted in violation of the provisions of this section, whether con­ 
tracted within or without this state, shall be void.-Laws of 1893, p. 225, 
§ I. . 
§ 1174. Decree must prohibit marriage within six months-Con­
tempt. Whenever judgment or decree of divorce from the- bonds of
matrimony is granted by any court in this state, such judgment or decree
shall expressly prohibit the plaintiff and defendant named therein from 
contracting any marriage with third parties within the period of six
months from the date of the entry of such judgment or decree, and in
case either party to said decree re-marry within said period, be· or she
shall be deemed guilty of contempt of the court granting such judgment
or decree, and shall be proceeded against and punished in like manner as
in other cases of contempt of court.-Laws of 1893, p. 226, § 2. 
§ 1175. Prosecuting attorney to bring contempt proceedings. It
shall be the duty of the prosecuting attorney of each county to prosecute
for contempt any person violating the provisions of any decree mentioned 
in the last section rendered by any superior court of his county.-Laws
of 1893, p. 226, § 3. 
CHAPTER XC. 
ADOPTION OF CHILDREN. 
I 1176. Any inhabitant may petition for leave
to adopt. 
i u77. When wife to be examined separately. 
i n78. Court must be satisfied of petitioner's
ability-Change of name. 
i 1179. Natural parents DO further legal rights
-Property qualification. 
§ 1176. [1418.*] Any inhabitant may petition for leave to adopt. 
Any inhabitant of this territory, not married, or any husband and wife, 
jointly, may petition the probate court of their proper county, for leave
to adopt a minor child, not theirs by birth, and for a change of name of
said child; but a written consent must be given to such adoption by the
child, if of the age of fourteen years, and by each of his or her living
parents, who is not hopelessly insane or a confirmed drunkard. If there
be no such parents1 or if the parent be unknown, or shall have aban­
doned such child, or if such parents, or either of them, are hopelessly in­
sane, or a confirmed drunkard, then, by the legal guardian ; if there be
no such guardian, then by a discreet and suitable person, appointed by
said court to act in the proceedings as the next friend of such child: Pro­ 
vided, kotoeuer, That, if the parents are living separate and apart, the con­
sent of both is not required, but such consent may be given by the parent
having the care, custody and control of such child.-Code of 1881·, 
§ 1667. 
§ u77. (1419.*] When wife to be examined separately. That, if
the petition be filed by husband and wife, the court shall examine the
wife separate and apart from her husband, and shall refuse leave for such 
adoption, unless the court shall be satisfied, from such examination, that
the wife, of her own free will and accord desires such adoption.-Code of 
1881, § 1668. 
§ 1178. (1420.*] Court must be satisfied of petitioner's ability­
Change of name. That, upon the compliance with the foregoing provis­
ions, if the court shall be satisfied of the ability of the petitioner, or peti­
tioners, to bring up and educate the child properly, having reference to
the degree and condition of the child's parents, and shall be satisfied of
the fitness and propriety of such adoption, the court 'shall make an order
setting forth the facts, and declaring that, from that date, such child, to
all legal intents and purposes, is the child of the petitioner-or petitioners,
and that the name of the child is thereby changed.-Code of 1881, § 1669 . 
CHAPTER XCI. 
CHANG£ OF PERSON'S NAMJt.
l u8o. Change of name. 
• 
§ 1179. (1421.*J Natural parents no further legal rights-Prop-
erty qualification. That by such order the natural parents shall be di­ 
vested of all legal rights and obligations in respect to such child, and the
child shall be free from all legal obligations of obedience and mainten­
ance in 'respect to them, and shall be, to all intents and purposes, the
child and legal heir of his or her adopter or adopters, entitled to all the
rights and privileges and. subject to all the obligations of a child of the
adopter or adopters begotten in lawful wedlock: Provided, That on the de­
cease of parents who have adopted a child or children under this act and
the subsequent decease of such child or children without issue, the prop­
erty of such adopting parents shall descend to their next of kin, and not
to the next of kin of such adopted child or children.-Code of 1881, § 1670. 
§ 1180. (777.] Change of name. Any person desiring a change of
his name or that of his child or ward, may apply therefor to the district 
court of the county in which he resides, by petition setting forth the rea­
sons for such change ; thereupon such court in its discretion may order a 
change of the name and thenceforth the new name shall be dn place of
the former.-Code of 1981, § 635. 
i 1181. Complaint in butardy-Who may
make. 
f 1182. The clerk shall cause notice to be given. 
i I 183. Lien upon accu~'s property-For
what purpose. 
I 1184. Judge may order attachment without
bond-Revocation of the same. 
§ 1181. [2375.*] Complaint in bastardy-Who may make. When
any woman residing in any county of the territory is delivered of a bas­ 
tard child, or is pregnant with a child, which, if born alive will be a bas­
tard, complaint may be made in writing by any person to the district
court of the county where she resides, stating that fact, and charging the
proper person with being the father thereof. The proceeding shall be
entitled in the name of the territory against the accused as defendant.­
Code of 1881, § 1214. 
§ n82. [2376.*] The clerk shall cause notice to be given. 
Upon the filing of the complaint, the clerk shall cause notice to be
given to the person so charged as in an ordinary action.-Code of 1881, § 
1215. 
CHAPTER XCII. 
BASTARDY PROC~EDINGS. 
i 1185,, Prosecuting attorney shall act. 
f u86. Issue to be" guilty" or" not guilty." 
I 1187. If guilty charged with maintenance as
ordered by court. 
i n88. The court baa full power to change or­
ders, etc. 
· § 1183. [2377.*] Lien upon accused's property, for what purpose. 
From the time of the filing of such complaint, a lien shall be created upon
the real property of the accused in the county where the action is pending,
for the payment of any money and the performance of any order adjudged.
by the proper court : Provided, That no lien shall attach, until notice of
the pendency of the action is filed in the auditor's office of the county
where the real property is situated.-Code of 1881, § 1216. 
§ 1184. [2378.*] J'udge may order attachment without bond-Re­
vocation of the same. If the complaint is verified the district judge
may order an attachment to issue thereon without bond, which order shall
specify the amount of property to be seized under the attachment, and may 
be revoked at any time by such judge or the district court, on a showing
made to either for a revocation of the same, and on such terms as such
court or judge may deem proper in the premises.-Code of 1881, § 1217. 
§ 1185. [2379. *] Prosecuting attorney shall act. The prosecuting
attorney, on being notified of the facts, shall prosecute the matter in be­
half of the complainant.-Code of 1881, § 1218. 
§ 1186. [2380.*] Issue to be "guilty" or "not gui~ty.", The issue
on the trial shall be "guilty" or "not guilty," and shall be tried as an or­
dinary action.-Code of 1881, § 1219. 
§ 1187. [2381.*] If guilty, charged with maintenance as ordered
by court. If .the accused be found guilty, he shall be charged with the
maintenance of the child in such sum or sums, and in such mannar as the
court shall direct, and with the costs of the suit ; and the clerk may issue
execution for any sum ordered, to be paid immediately, and afterwards, 
from time to time, as it shall be required to compel compliance with the
order of the court. -Code of 188 1, ~ 12 20. 
§ 1188. [2382.*] The court has full power to change orders, etc. 
The court may, at any time, enlarge, diminish or vacate any order or
judgment rendered in the proceeding herein contemplated, on such notice
to the defendant as the court or judge may prescribe.-Code of 1881, ~ 1221. 
NOTB: This chapter is a part of the Criminal Procedure act of 18811-a part of
· chapter xciv. of the code of 1881; but it relates chiefly to civil actions and 
is therefore inserted here. 
l nSc). Any person may make complaint. 
CHAPTER XCIII. 
I 1190. When a person may be adjudged a
drunkard. 
i 1191. Any member of the family may make
complaint or justice of the peace cer­
tify. 
I 1192. Ten days summons to defendant­
Conrt to declare person a drunkard. 
DRUNKARDS. 
i 1193. Pees same as in other actions. 
~ 1194. Person selling liquors to drunkards lia­
ble toaction. 
i 1195. Petition of reformed drunkard for can­
cellation of order. 
§ 1189. [2522.] Any person may make complaint. [Any person
may make complaint of any person addicted to the excessive use of intox­
icating liquors, to the probate judge in the county wherein such person
so addicted resides, that the person complained of is a habitual drunk­
ard, and that in consequence thereof such person is squandering his or
her earnings or property, or that he or she neglects his or her business,
or that such person abuses or maltreats bis or her family, which com­
plaint must be verified by the oath of the complainant to the effect that 
the same is true. ]-Code of 1881, § 167 1. 
§ 1190. [2523.] When a person maybe adjudged a drunkard. Any
person addicted to the use of intoxicating liquors may, upon complaint 
thereof, or upon certificate of a justice of the peace, as hereinafter pro­
vided, be adjudged a habitual drunkard.-Laws of 1883, p. 32, § i. 
§ 1191. [2524.*] Any member of the family may make complaint,
or justice of peace certify. Either the father, husband, mother, wife,
son or daughter of any person addicted to the excessive use of intoxicat­
ing liquors, or any person in the interest of the relative aggrieved or of 
the general public, may make complaint to the probate judge of the county
wherein such person, so addicted, resides, that the person complained of is
a habitual drunkard, and that, in consequence thereof, such person is
sqaundering his earnings or property, or that he neglects his business, or
that he abuses or maltreats his family, which complaint must be verified
by the oath of the complainant to the effect that the same is true. And
every justice of the peace in whose court any person shall have been con­
victed twice on a charge of being drunk, or drunk and disorderly, shall
certify to the probate judge of the county in which he resides, that said
person has thus twice been convicted.-Laws of 1883, p. 32, § 2. 
§ 11<)2. [2525. *] Ten days' summons to defendant_.Oourt to de­
clare person.a drunkard. Upon filing of the complaint, duly verified,
the probate judge shall cause a copy thereof to be served upon the accused
forthwith and shall summon him to appear and answer, giving at least ten 
days' notice; and if, upon the hearing of the evidence, the allegations of
the complaint are sustained, or upon filing a certificate of a justice of the
peace, as above provided, such judge shall, in open court, declare the ac­
cused to be a habitual drunkard, and shall cause the proceeding to be
entered in full upon the records of the court.-Laws of 1883, p. 32, § 3. 
§ 1193. (2526.] Pees same as in other actions. The same fees shall
be allowed to the probate judge, justice of the peace, and the sheriff or 
constable, in all proceedings under the foregoing sections of this act, as are
allowed by law for like processes and services, and like fees for witnesses,
as in civil cases before justice of the peace ; and if the complaint is not sus­
tained, the person making the complaint shall pay the costs ; and in case
the complaint is sustained, the person accused shall pay the costs.--Code of 
I 883, p. 33, § 4· 
§ 1194. (2528. *] Person selling liquor to drunkard liable to action. 
Any person who shall be injured in person or property or means of sup­
port, by any habitual drunkard, as defined by this act, while in a state of
intoxication, ur in consequence of such intoxication, shall have a right of
action in his or her own name, severally or jointly, against any person or
persons who shall, by selling or giving intoxicating liquors to such habitual
drunkard, have caused his intoxication in whole or in part, and such per­
son selling or giving such intoxicating liquors as afore.said, shall be liable
severally or jointly for all damages sustained, and the same may be recov­
ered in a civil action. A married woman may bring such action in her
own name, and all damages recovered by her shall inure to her separate
use, and all damages recovered by a minor under this act shall be paid
either to such minor or to such person in trust for him or her, as the court
may direct.-Code of 1881, § 1675. 
§ 1195. (2530. *] Petition of reformed drunkard for cancellation of
order. Any person so declared to be a habitual drunkard may, at any 
time after the expiration of two years from the time he was so declared to
be such, by petition addressed to the judge of the court in which he was·
so adjudged, have a hearing in such court, upon a day which shall be by
such court set, which day shall not be more than ten days after the filing
of such petition in such court, which petition may contain a statement of
facts tending to show the improved condition and habits of such petitioner
and to establish his character for sobriety, and a prayer that the order on
record so declaring him to be such habitual drunkard be vacated and he be
released from the effects thereof; which petition shall be duly verified by
the petitioner. And if upon the hearing of such petition and the evidence
in support thereof it appear to the judge that such petitioner is entitled to
have such record vacated and be so released then he shall make an order so
declaring that such record be vacated and annulled and that the petitioner
be thereafter released from the effects thereof.-Code of 1881, § 1677. 
judgment. 
§ 1196. [427.*] Any elector may contest-Causes for contesting. 
Any elector of the proper county may contest the right of any person de-
dared duly elected to an office to be exercised, in and for such county;
and also any elector of a precinct may contest the right of any person de­
clared duly elected to any office in and for such precinct. Such contest 
may be made for any of the following causes: 
1. For mat-conduct on the part of the board of judges or any member
thereof. 
2. When the person whose right to office is contested, was not, at the
time of election, eligible to such office. · 
3. When the person whose right is contested shall have been previous to
such election convicted of an infamous crime, by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such conviction not having been reversed .nor such person re­
lieved from the legal infamy of such conviction. 
4. When the person whose right is contested has given to any elector or
inspector, judge or clerk of the election, any bribe or reward, or shall have
offered any such bribe or reward for the purpose of procuring his election. 
5. On account of illegal votes.-Code of 1881, § 3105. 
§ 1197. [428.*] Malconduct of judges-When sufficient to annul . 
.No irregularity or improper conduct in the proceedings of the board of
judges or any one of them shall be construed to amount to such malcon­
duct as to annul or set aside any election, unless the irregularity or im­
proper conduct shall have been such as to procure the person whose right
to the office may be contested, to be declared duly elected when he had
not received the highest number of legal votes.-Code of 1881, § 31o6. 
§ II98. [429.*] Malconduct shall not annul unless the result be
changed. When any election held for an office exercised in and for a
county is contested on account of any malconduct on the part of the board
of judges of any precinct election, or any member thereof, the election 
shall not be annulled and set aside upon any proof thereof, unless the re­
jection of the vote of such precinct or precincts shall change the result as
to such office in the remaining vote of the county.-Code of 1881, § 3107. 
§ 1199. [430.*] When illegal votes shall set aside an election. 
Nothing in the fifth ground of contest, specified in section 3105 [1196]
shall be so construed as to authorize an election to be set aside on account
of illegal votes, unless it shall appear that an amount of illegal votes has
been given to the person whose right to the office is contested, which, if
taken from him would reduce the number of his legal votes below the num­
ber of votes given to some other person, for the same office, after deducting 
therefrom the illegal votes which may be shown to have been given to such
other person.-Code of 1881, § 3108. . 
§ 1200. [431.*] No p~rson but an elector shall contest. No person
shall be competent to contest an election unless he is a qualified elector of 
the district, county or precinct, as the case may be, in which the office is
to be exercised.-Code of 1881, § 3109. 
§ 1201. [432.*] l:Iector must file written statement within ten 
days-Contents. When any such elector shall choose to contest the
right of any person declared duly elected to such office, he shall within
ten days after such person shall have been declared elected to such office,
file with the clerk of the court for the district having jurisdiction, a writ­
ten statement setting forth specifically : 
1. The name of the party contesting such election and that he is a
qualified elector of the district, county or precinct, as the case may be in
which such election was held ; 
2. The name of the person whose right to the office is contested;
3. The office ; 
4. The particular cause or causes of such contest, which statement
shall be verified by the affidavit of the contesting party that the matters
and things therein contained are true as he verily believes.-Code of 1881, 
§3qo. 
§ 1202. [433.*l List of illegal votes to be furnished three days
previous to triaf. When the reception of illegal votes is alleged as a
cause of contest, it shall be sufficient to state generally that illegal votes 
were cast, which, if given to the person whose election is contested in the
specified precinct or precincts, will, if taken from him reduce the number
of his legal votes below the number of legal votes given to some other per­
son for the same office; but no testimony shall be received of any illegal
votes unless the party contesting such election shall deliver to the oppo­
site party, at least three days before such trial, a written list of the num­
ber of illegal votes and by whom given, which he intends to prove on·
such trial and no testimony shall be received of any illegal votes, except
such as are specified in such list.-Code of 1881, § 3111. 
§ 1203. [434.*] Want of form not sufficient to reject statement. 
No statement of the cause of contest shall be rejected, nor the proceedings
thereon dismissed by any court before which such contest may be brought
for trial, for want of form, if the particular cause or causes of contest
shall be alleged with such certainty, as will sufficiently advise the defend­
ant of the particular proceedings, or cause for which such election is con­ 
tested. -Code of 1881, § 3112.
§ 1204. [435.*] How trial shall be conducted. Upon such state­ 
ment being filed it shall be the duty of the clerk to inform the judge of
the district court who may give notice and order a special term of said
court, to be held at the usual place of holding said court, on some day to 
be named by him, not less than ten nor more than twenty days from the
date of such notice, to hear and determine such contested election : Pro­ 
vided, That if no special term is called, such contest shall be determined
at the first regular term of said court after such statement is filed.-Code 
of 1881, 3113. 
§ 1205. (436.*] Citation to be served to party whose right is con­
tested. The clerk of said court shall also at the time issue a citation,
for the person whose right to the office is contested, to appear at the time
and place specified in said notice, which citation shall be delivered to
the sheriff, or constable, and be served upon the· party in person, or if he 
cannot be found, by leaving a copy thereof at the house where he last
resided.·-Code of 1881, § 3114. 
§ 1206. [437.*] Witnesses compelled to attend if summoned. The
said clerk shall issue subpeenas for witnesses in such contested election, at 
the request of either party, which shall be served by the sheriff or con­
stable, as other subpcenas, and the district court shall have full power to
issue attachments to compel the attendance of witnesses who shall have
been duly subpeeuaed to attend, if they fail to do so.-Code of 1881, § 
3115. . 
§ 1207. [ 438. *] After hearing the court shall pronounce j udg­
ment. Said court shall meet at the time and place designated to de­
termine such contested election, by the rules of law and evidence govern­ 
ing the determination of questions of law and fact, so far as the same
may be applicable, and may dismiss the proceedings, if the statement of
the cause or causes of contest is insufficient, or for want of prosecution.
After hearing the proofs and allegations of the parties, the court shall
pronounce judgment in the premises, either confirming or annulling and
setting aside such election, according to the law and right of the case.­ 
Code of 1881, § 3116. 
§ 1208. [439.*] Court may declare other person elected. If in
any such case it shall appear that another person than the one returned, 
has the highest number of legal votes, said court shall declare such per­
son duly elected.-Code of 1881, § 3117. 
§ 1209. Fees collected from unsuccessful parties.· The judge,
clerk, sheriff, or constable and witnesses, shall receive respectively the 
same fees from the party against whom judgment is given, as are allowed
for similar service in the district court.-Code of 1881, § 3118. 
§ 1210. [440.*] If dismissed for insufficiency, contestant liable for
costs. If the proceedings are dismissed for insufficiency, want of prose­
cution, or the election is by the court confirmed, judgment shall be ren­ 
dered against the party contesting such election, for costs, in favor of the
party whose election was contested.-Code of 1881, § 3119. 
§ 1211. (441.*] Costs allowed contestant where election is an­
nulled. If such election is annulled, and set aside, judgment for costs 
shall be rendered against the party whose election was contested, in favor
of the party contesting the same.-Code of 1881, § 3120. 
§ 1212. Bach party liable for the costs created by himself. Each
party shall be liable for the costs created by himself, to the officers and 
witnesses entitled thereto, which may be collected in the same manner in
which similar costs are collected, in the district court.-Code of 1881, § 
3121. 
§ 1213. [442.*] Aggrieved parties may appeal. Either party, feeling
himself aggrieved by the judgment of said court, may appeal therefrom 
to the supreme court, as in other cases of appeal thereto.-Code of 1881, 
§ 3122. 
§ 1214. [443.*] When election annulled, certificate is void. When­
ever an election shall be annulled, and set aside, by the judgment of the 
district court, when no appeal has been taken therefrom within ten days,
such certificate or commission, if any [have] [kas] been issued, shall be 
thereby rendered void.-Code of 18~1. § 3123. 
i 1215. Contempts of court enumerated. 
i 1216. Punishment not to exceed three hun­
dred dollars fine or six months im­ 
prisonment. 
I 1217. Contempts in court punished sum­
marily 
i 1218. Order to show cause or warrant of
arrest. 
i 1219. If offender in custody, officer must pro­
duce him. 
~ 1220. State and relater to be co·plaintitrs.
I 12:.11. Contents of warrant of arrest-How 
executed. 
~
CHAPTER XCV. 
CONTEMPTS AND THEIR PUNISHMENT. 
§ 1215. [778.] Contempts of court enumerated. The following
acts or omissions, in respect to a court of justice or proceedings therein, 
are deemed to be contempts of court: 
i 1222. Return of warrant court to investigate
charges. 
~ 12:.13. Judgment. 
t 12:.14. Party Injured by contempt may be in­
demnified. 
i 1225. Party may be imprisoned until he
obeys order of court. -, 
i 1226. Offender may be indicted for same
offense. 
l 1227. Alias warrant-Prosecution on bond. 
i 1228. Appeal-No stay of proceedings. 
1. Disorderly, contemptuous or insolent behavior toward the judge
while holding the court, tending to impair its authority, or to interrupt the
due course of a trial or other judicial proceedings. 
2. A breach of the peace, boisterous conduct or violent disturbance
tending to interrupt the due course of a trial or other judicial proceeding. 
3. Misbehavior in office or other willful neglect or violation of duty by
an attorney, clerk, sheriff or other person appointed or selected to perform
a judicial or ministerial service. 
4. Deceit, abuse of the process or proceedings of the court by a party to
an action, suit or special proceeding. 
5. Disobedience of any lawful judgment, decree, order or process of the
court. 
6. Assuming to be an attorney or other officer of the court, and acting
as such without authority in a particular instance. , 
7. Rescuing any person or property in the lawful custody of an officer,
held by such officer under an order or process of such court. 
8. Unlawfully detaining a witness or party to an action, suit or proceed­
ing, while going to, remaining at or returning from the court where the
same is for trial. 
9. Any other unlawful interference with the process or proceedings of a
court. 
10. Disobedience of a subpcena duly served, or refusing to be sworn or
answer as a witness. 
11. 'When summoned as a juror in a court, improperly conversing with
a party to an action, suit or proceeding to be tried at such court, or with
any other person in relation to the merits of such action, suit or proceeding,
or receiving a communication from a party or other person in respect to it,
without immediately disclosing the same to the court. 
12. Disobedience by an inferior tribunal, magistrate or officer, of the
lawful judgment, decree, order or process of a superior court, or proceed- 
ing in an action, suit or proceeding, contrary to law, after such action, suit
or proceeding shall have been removed from the jurisdiction of such in­
ferior tribunal, magistrate or officer.-Code o.f 1881, § 725. 
State v. Sachs, 30 P., 503; 3 W., 4g6. 
§ 1216. [779.] Punishment not to exceed three hundred dollars
fine or six months imprisonmClllt. Every court of justice, and every
judicial officer has power to punish contempt by fine or imprisonment, or
both. But such fine shall not exceed three hundred dollars, nor the im­
prisonment six months; and when the contempt is not of those mentioned 
in subdivisions one and two of the last section, it must appear that the right
or remedy of a party to an action, suit or proceeding was defeated or preju-
diced thereby, before the contempt can be punished otherwise than by a
fine not exceeding one hundred dollars.-Code of 1881, § 726. 
§ 1217. [780.] Contempt& in court punished summarily. When a
contempt is committed in the immediate view and presence of the court or
officer, it may be punished summarily, for which an order must be made 
reciting the facts as occurring in such immediate view and presence, deter­
mining that the person proceeded against is thereby guilty of contempt,
and that he be punished as therein prescribed.-Code o.f 1881, § 727. 
§ 1218. [781.] Order to show cause or warrant of arrest. In cases
other than those mentioned in the preceding section, before any proceed­ 
ings can be taken therein, the facts constituting the contempt must be
shown by an affidavit presented to the court or judicial officer, and there­
upon such court or officer may either make an order upon the person
charged to show cause why he should not be arrested to answer, or issue a
warrant of arrest to bring such person to answer in the first instance.­ 
Code o.f 1881, § 728. 
§ 1219. [782.] If offender in custody officer must produce him. 
If the party charged be in custody of an officer by virtue of a legal order
or process, civil or criminal, except upon a sentence for a felony, an order
may be made for the production of such person by the officer having him
in custody that he may answer, and he shall thereupon be produced and
held until an order be made for his disposal.-Code o.f 1881, 729. 
§ 1220. [783.] State and relator to.be co-plaintiff's. In the proceed­
ing for a contempt, the territory is the plaintiff. In all cases of public
interest, the proceeding may be prosecuted by the district attorney on be­
half of the territory, and in all cases where the proceeding is commenced 
upon the relation of a private party, such party shall be deemed a co­
plaintiff with the territory.-Code o.f 1881, § 730. 
State v. Milligan, 29 P., 763; 4 W., 29. 
§ 1221. [784.] Contents of warrant of arrest-How executed. 
Whenever a warrant of arrest is issued pursuant to this chapter, the court
or judicial officer shall direct therein whether the person charged may be 
let to bail for his appearance upon the warrant, or detained in custody
without bail, and if he may be bailed, the amount in which he may be let
to bail. Upon executing the warrant of arrest, the sheriff must keep the
person in actual custody, bring him before the court or judicial officer and
detain him until an order be made in the premises, unless the person ar­
rested execute and deliver to the sheriff, at any time before the return da:y
of the warrant, a bond with two sufficient sureties, to the effect that he will 
appear on such return day and abide the order or judgment of the court
or officer thereupon.-Codeof 1881, § 731. 
§ 1222. [785.] Return of warrant-Court to investigate charges. 
The sheriff shall return the warrant of arrest and the bond, if any, given
him by the defendant, by the return day therein specified. When the de­
fendant has been brought up or appeared, the court or judicial officer shall
proceed to investigate the charge by examining such defendant and wit­
nesses for or against him, for which an adjournment may be had from time 
to time, if necessary.-Code of 1881, § 732.
§ 1223. [786.] Judgment. Upon the evidence so taken, the court or 
judicial officer shall determine whether or not the defendant is guilty of the
contempt charged; and if it be determined that he is so guilty, shall sen­
tence him to be punished as provided in this chapter.-Code of 1881, § 733. 
§ 1224. [787.] Party injured by contempt may be indemnified. If
any loss or injury to a party in an action, suit or proceeding prejudicial to 
bis rights therein, have been caused by the contempt, the court or judicial
officer, in addition to the punishment imposed for the contempt, may give 
judgment that the party aggrieved recover of the defendant a sum of money
sufficient to indemnify him, and to satisfy his costs and disbursements,
which judgment, and the acceptance of the amount thereof, is a bar to any
action, suit or proceeding by the aggrieved party for such loss or injury. - 
Code of 1881, § 734.
§ 1225. [788.] Party may be imprisoned until he obeys order of 
court. When the contempt consists in the omission or refusal to perform
an act which is yet in the power of the defendant to perform, he may be
imprisoned until he shall have performed it, and in such case the act must
be specified in the warrant of commitment.-Code of 1881, ~ 735. 
§ 1226. [789.] Otrender may be indicted for same offense. Per­
sons proceeded against according to the provisions of this chapter, are also 
liable to indictment for the same misconduct, if it be an indictable offense,
but the court before which a conviction is had on the indictment, in passing
sentence shall take into consideration the punishment before inflicted.­ 
Code of 1881, § 736.
§ 1227. [790.] Alias warrant-Prosecution on bond. When the 
warrant of arrest has been returned served, if the defendant do not appear
on the return day, the court or judicial officer may issue another warrant
of arrest, or may order the bond to be prosecuted, or both. If the bond be
prosecuted and the aggrieved party join in the action, and the sum speci­
fied therein be recovered, so much thereof as will compensate such party
for the loss or injury sustained by reason of the misconduct for which the
warrant was issued shall be deemed to be recovered for such party exclu­ 
sively.-Code of 1881, ~ 737. 
§ 1228. [791.] Appeal-No stay of proceedings. Either party to a
judgment in a proceeding for a contempt may appeal therefrom in like 
manner and with like effect as from judgment in an action, but such appeal
shall not have the effect to stay the proceedings in any other action, suit or 
proceeding, or upon any judgment, decree or order therein, concerning
which, or wherein such contempt was committed. Contempts of justices' 
courts are punishable in the manner specially provided for in the '' act re­
lating to justices of the peace and to their practice and jurisdiction.' '-Code 
4 1881, § 738. 
§ 1229. Upon what given-Agent-Railroad companies. Every 
person performing labor upon or furnishing material to be used in the con­
struction, alteration or repair of any mining claim, building, wharf, bridge,
ditch, dyke, flume, tunnel, fence, machinery, railroad, street railway, wagon
road, aqueduct to create hydraulic power or any other structure, or who
performs labor in any mine or mining claim or stone quarry, has a lien upon 
the same for the labor performed or materials furnished by each, respec­
tively, whether performed or furnished at the instance of the owner of the
property subject to the lien, or his agent; and every contractor, subcon­
tractor, architect, builder or person having charge of the construction, al­
teration or repair of any property subject to the lien as aforesaid, shall be
held to be the agent of the owner for the purposes of the establishment of
the lien created by this act : Provided, That whenever any railroad com­
pany shall contract with any person for the construction of its road, or any part thereof, such railroad company shall take from the person with whom
such contract is made a good and sufficient bond, conditioned that such
person shall pay all laborers, mechanics and material men, and persons
who supply such contractors with provisions, all just dues to such persons
or to any person to whom any part of such work is given, incurred in car­
rying on such work, which bond shall be filed by. such railroad company
in the office of the county auditor in each county in which any part of such
work is situated. And if any such railroad company shall fail to take such
bond, such railroad company shall be liable to the persons herein men­
tioned to the full extent of all such debts so contracted by such contractor. 
-Laws of 1893, p. 32, § I. 
Whittier v. Puget Sound L. T. & B. Co., 30 P., 1094; 4 W., 666. Wheeler v.
Ralph, 30 P., 709; 4 W., 617. Nelson v. Clerf, 30 P., 716; 4 W., 405. Stet­ 
son & Post Mill Co. v. McDonald, 32 P., 1o8. Heald v. Hodder, 32 P., 728.
Huttig Bros. Mfg, Co. v. Denny Hotel ce., 33 P. Spokane Mfg. Co. v.
McChesney, 21 P., 198; 1 W., 6og. 
§ 1230. Land subject to lien-Owner's interest only liable. The
land upon which the property subject to the lien created by section one of 
this act is situated, or which is a part thereof, together with a convenient
space about the same, or so much as may be required for the convenient
use and occupation thereof, to be determined by the court on rendering
judgment in a foreclosure of the lien, is also subject to the lien, if at the 
commencement of the performance of the labor or of the furnishing of the
materials, the land belonged to the person who, in his own behalf, or who,
through any of the persons designated in section one of this act to be the
agent of the owner, caused the performance of the labor, or the construc­
tion, alteration or repair of the property subject to the lien: Provided,
That if such person own less than a fee simple in such land, then only his
interest therein is subject to the lien.-Laws of 1893, p. 33, § 2. 
Vendome Turkish Bath Co., v. Schettler, 2 W., 457; 27 P., 76. Front Street
Cable Ry. Co. v. Johnson, 2 W., n3; 25 P., 1o8o. 
§ 1231. Lien for improvement of premises, streets, etc. Any per­
son who, at the request of the owner of any real property, his agent, con­
tractor or subcontractor, clears, grades, fills in or otherwise improves the
same, or any street or road in front of, or adjoining the same, has a lien
upon such real property for the labor performed, or the materials furnished 
for such purposes.-Laws of 1893, p. 33, § 3. 
§ 12 32. Lien to have preference. The liens created by this act are
preferred to any lien, mortgage or other incumbrance which may attach
subsequently to the time of the commencement of the performance of the
labor, or the furnishing of the materials for which the right of lien is
given by this act, and are also preferred to any lien, mortgage or other in­
cumbranee which may have attached previously to that time, and which
was not filed or recorded so as to create constructive notice of the same 
prior to that time, and of which the lien claimant had no notice.-Laws of 
1893, p. 33, § 4. 
§ 1233. Lien claims must be flied within ninety days. No lien
created by this act shall exist, and no action to enforce the same shall be
maintained, unless within ninety days from the date of the cessation of the 
performance of such labor or of the furnishing of such materials, a claim
for such lien shall be filed for record as hereinafter provided, in the office of
the county auditor of the county in which the property, or some part
thereof to be affected thereby, is situated. Such claim shall state, as
nearly as may be, the time of the commencement and cessation of perform­
ing the labor, or furnishing the material, the name of the person who per­
formed the labor, or furnished the material, the name of the person by
whom the laborer was employed (if known) or to whom the material was
furnished, a description of the property to be charged with the lien suffi­
cient for identification, the name of the owner, or reputed owner if known,
and if not known, that fact shall be mentioned, the amount for which the
lien is claimed, and shall be signed by the claimant, or by some person in
his behalf, and be verified by the oath of the claimant, or some person in
his behalf, to the effect that the affiant believes the claim to be just ; in
case the claim shall have been assigned the name of the assignee shall be
stated ; and such claim of lien may be amended in case of action brought
to foreclose the same, by order of the court, as pleadings may be, in so far
as the interests of third parties shall not be affected by such amendment. 
-Laws of 1893, p. 34, § 5· 
Cowie v. Ahrenstedt, I W., 416; 25 P., 458. ·warren v. Quade, 3 W., 750; 29 P.,
827; Tacoma Lum. Co. v. Wilson, 3W., 786; 29P.1 829. Tacoma Lum. Co. v. 
Kennedy, 30 P., 79 ; 4 W., 305. Johiison v. Harrington, 31 P., 316. Young
v. Howell, 31 P., 629. Tacoma Lum. Co. v. Wolff, 31 P., 753. Fairhaven 
Land Co. v. Jordan, 32 P., 729. Mt. Tacoma Mfg. Co. v. Cultum, 32 P., 95.
Stetson & Post Mill Co. v. McDonald, 32 P., 1o8. Heald v. Hodder, 32 P.,
728. Merchant v. Humeston, 2 W. T., 433; 7 P., 903. 
§ 1234. Form of lien notice. A claim for lien substantially in the
following form shall be sufficient: 
-----------·····-··- , claimant, vs. -------------------·
Notice is hereby given that on the day ( date of commencement of 
performing labor or furnishing material) at the request o(__ _
commenced to perform labor (or to furnish material to be used) upon _ 
(here describe property subject to the lien) of which property the owner,
or reputed owner, is (orif the owner or reputed owner is not known, 
insert the word "unknown"), the performance of which labor. (or the
furnishing of which material) ceased on the day of, ; that 
said labor performed (or material furnished) was of the value of _
dollars, for which labor (or material) the undersigned claims a lien upon 
the property herein described for the sum of dollars. (In case the
claim has been assigned, add the words '' and is assignee of said 
claim,'' or claims, if several are united). 
STATJt OF WASHINGTON, COUNTY OF , SS. 
________ ·-- , Claimant. 
-----------·• being sworn, says: I am the claimant (or attorney of the 
claimant) above named ; I have heard the foregoing claim read and
know the contents thereof, and believe the same to be just. 
Subscribed and sworn to before me this day of__ . 
-Laws of 1893, p. 34, § 5· 
§ 1235. Several claimants may join. Any number of claimants
may join in the same claim for the purpose of filing the same and enforc­
ing their liens, but in such case the amount claimed by each original 
lienor, respectively, shall be stated: Provided, It shall not be necessary to
insert in the notice of claim of lien provided for by this act any itemized
statement or bill of particulars of such claim.-Laws of 1893, p. 35, § 5. 
§ 1236. Record of lien in auditor's ofBce. The county auditor
must record the claims mentioned in this act in a book to be kept by him
for that purpose, which record must be indexed as deeds and other con­ 
veyances are required by law to be indexed.-Laws of 1893, p. 35, § 6. 
§ 1237. Lien or right to lien is assignable. Any lien or right of
lien created by law and the right of action to recover therefor, shall be as­ 
signable so as to vest in the assignee all rights and remedies of the as­
signor, subject to all defenses thereto that might be made if such assign­
ment. had not been made.-Laws of 1893, p. 35, § 7. 
~ 1238. Liens on separate properties must be segregated. In every
case in which one claim is filed against two or more separate pieces of 
property owned by the same person, or owned by two or more persons
who jointly contracted for the labor or material for which the lien is
claimed, the person filing such claim must designate in the claim the
amount due him on each piece of property,. otherwise the lien of such
claim is postponed to other liens. The lien of such claim does not extend
beyond the amount designated as against other creditors having liens up­
on either of such pieces of property.-Laws of 1893, p. 35, § 8. 
§ 1239. Action must be begun within eight months and prosecuted
to judgment within two years. No lien created by this act binds the
property subject to the lien for a longer period than eight calendar months
after the claim has been filed unless an action be commenced in the proper 
court within that time to enforce such lien; or, if credit be given, then
eight calendar months after the expiration of such credit ; and in case
such action be not prosecuted to judgment within two years after the com­
mencement thereof, the court, in its discretion, may dismiss the same for
want of prosecution, and the dismissal of such action, or a judgment ren­
dered tlierein, that no lien exists, shall constitute a cancellation of the 
lien.-Laws of 1893, p. 35, § 9· 
NO'l'B : The following section of the old law is here inserted as there are no pro­
visions in the new law corresponding to it, and it is thought to be still in
force. See ~ 1250. 
§ 1240. [ 1671. *] How owner may prevent lien from attaching. 
Should the owner or owners of any land desire to prevent the lien from at­
taching as herein provided for in cases where he or they have not them­
selves contracted for the construction, alteration or repair of the works
mentioned in section 1957, he or they may do so by giving a notice in
writing, posted in some conspicuous place upon said land or improvement, 
to the effect that he or they will not be responsible for said improvement ;
said notice to be posted within ten days after said owner or owners come to 
a knowledge of the making of said improvements.-Code of 1881, § 1965. 
§ 1241. Extent of contractor's lien-Adjustment with owner.­ 
The contractor shall be entitled to recover upon the claim filed by him only
such amount as may be due him according to the terms of his contract,
after deducting all claims of other parties for labor performed and materials
furnished ; and in all cases where a claim shall be filed under this act for
labor performed or materials furnished to any contractor, he shall defend
any action brought thereupon at his own expense ; and during the pen­
dency of such action, the owner may withhold from the contractor the
amount of money for which the claim is filed ; and in case of judgment
against the owner or his property, upon the lien, the owner shall be entitled.
to deduct from any amount due or to become due by him to the contractor,
the amount of the judgment and costs, and if the amount of such judg­
ment and costs shall exceed the amount due by him to the contractor, or if
the owner shall have settled with the contractors in full, he shall be entitled
to recover back from the contractor the amount, including costs for which
the lien is established in excess of any sum that may remain due from him
to the contractor.-Laws of 1893, p. 36, § 10. 
Eisenbeis v. Wakeman, 3 W., 534; 28 P., 923. Hildebrandt v. Savage, 30 P.,
643; 32 P., 109; 4 W., 524, 
§ 1242. Enforced by civil action-Parties. The liens provided by
this act, for which claims have been filed, may be foreclosed and enforced
by a civil action in the court having jurisdiction ; in any action brought to 
foreclose a lien, all persons who, prior to the commencement of such action,
have legally filed claims of liens against the same property, or any part
thereof, shall be joined as parties, either plaintiff' or defendant; and no
person shall begin an action to foreclose a lien upon any property while a
prior action begun to foreclose another lien on the same property is pending,
but if not made a party plaintiff or defendant to such prior action, he may
apply to the court to be joined as a party thereto, and his lien may be fore­
closed in such action ; and no action to foreclose a lien shall be dismissed
at the instance of a plaintiff therein to the prejudice of another party to
the suit who claims a lien.-Laws of 1893, p. 36, § 11. 
Wash. Iron Works v. Jansen, 3 W., 584; 28 P., 1019. Fox v. Nachtsheim, 3 W.,
685; 29 P., 140. Dearborn Foundry Co. v. Augustine, 31 P., 327. Install­
ment B. & G. Co. v. Wentworth, 25 P., 298; 1 W., 467. 
§ 1243. Rank of liens-Attorney's fees. In every case in which
different liens are claimed against the same property, the court, in the 
judgment, must declare the rank of such lien or class of liens, which shall 
be in the following order: 
1. All persons performing labor. 
2. All persons furnishing material.
3. The subcontractors.
4. The original contractors.
And the proceeds of the sale of the property must be applied to each 
lien or class of liens in the order of its rank ; and personal judgment may
be rendered in an action brought to foreclose a lien, against any party
personally liable for any debt for which the lien is claimed, and if the lien
be established, the judgment shall provide for the enforcement thereof
upon the property liable as in case of foreclosure of mortgages ; and the 
amount realized by such enforcement of the lien shall be credited upon the
proper personal judgment, and the deficiency, if any remaining unsatisfied,
shall stand as a personal judgment, and may be collected by execution
against the party liable therefor. The court may allow, as part of the
costs of the action, the moneys paid for filing or recording the claim, and
a reasonable attorney's fee in the superior and supreme courts.-Laws of 
1893, p. 37, § 12. 
§ 1244. Personal action not affected. Nothing contained in this act
shall be construed to impair or affect the right of any person to whom any 
debt may be due for labor performed or material furnished to maintain a
personal action to recover such debt against the person liable therefor.­ 
Laws of 1893, p.' 37, § 13. 
§ 1245. Taking note, etc., not to discharge lien. The taking of a
promissory note or other evidence of indebtedness for any labor performed 
or material furnished for which lien is created by law, shall not discharge
the lien therefor, unless expressly received as payment and so specified 
therein.-Laws of 1893, p. 37, § 14. 
§ 1246. Material furnished not subject to execution. Whenever
material shall have been furnished for use in the construction, alteration 
or repair of property subject to a lien created by this act, such material
shall not be subject to attachment, execution, or other legal process, to
enforce any debt due by the purchaser of such material, except a debt due
for the purchase money thereof, so long as in good faith the said material
is about to be applied in the construction, alteration or repair of such 
prope_rty.-Laws of 1893, p. 37, § 15. 
§ 1247. Community interest subject to lien. The claim. of lien,
when filed as required by this act, shall be notice to the husband or wife of
the person who appears of record to be the owner of. the property sought
to be charged with the lien, and shall subject all the community interest 
of both husband and wife to said lien.-Laws of 1893, p. 38, § 16. 
Cattel v. Fergusson, 3 W., 541; 28 P., 923. Sagmeister v. Foss, 30 P., So; 4 W.,
320. Mfg. Co. v. Miller, 28 P., 1035; 3 W., 48o. 
§ 1248. Property may be sold separate from land. When, for any
reason the title or interest in the land, upon which the property subject to
the lien is situated cannot be subjected to the lien, the court may order the
sale and removal from .the land of the property subject to the lien to sat­ 
isfy the lien.-Laws of 1893, p. 38, § 17. 
§ 1249. Liberal construction. The provisions of law relating to liens
created by this act, and all proceedings thereunder, shall be liberally con­ 
strued with a view to effect their objects.-Laws of 1893, p. 38, § 18. 
§ 1250. Saving and repealing clause. All rights acquired under
any existing law of this state are hereby preserved, and all actions now
pending shall be proceeded with under the law as it exists at the time this
act shall take effect. All acts or parts of acts in conflict with the provis­
ions of this act are hereby repealed.-Laws of 1893, p. 38, § 19. 
§ 1251. To whom and upon what given. Every person performing
labor upon or who shall assist in obtaining or securing saw logs, spars,
piles or other timber, has a lien upon the same, and upon all other logs,
spars, piles or other timber which, at the time of the filing of the claim of
lien hereinafter provided, belonging [belonged] to the person or corporation
for whom the labor was performed, for (or) the work or labor done upon or
in obtaining or securing the particular saw logs, spars, piles or other timber
in said claim of lien described, whether such work or labor was done at the
instance of the owner of the same or his agent. The cook in a logging
camp shall be regarded as a person who assists in obtaining or securing the 
timber herein mentioned.-Laws of 1893, p. 428, § 1. 
Casey v. Ault, 29 P., 1048; 4 W., 167. Winsor v. Johnson, 32 P., 215. Dexter
Horton & Co. v. Sparkman, 2 W., 165; 25 P., 1070. 
§ 1252. Liens on lumber while at mill. Every person performing
work or labor or assisting in manufacturing saw logs and other timber in­ 
to lumber and shingles, has a lien upon such lumber while the same re­
mains at the mill where it was manufactured, or in the possession or un­
der the control of the manufacturer, whether such work or labor was done
at the instance of the owner of such logs or his agent or any contractor
or subcontractor of such owner. The term lumber, as used in this act,
shall be held and be construed to mean all logs or other timber sawed or
split for use, including beams, joists, planks, boards, shingles, laths,
staves, hoops, and every article of whatsoever nature or description manu­ 
factured from saw logs or other timber.-Laws of 1893, p. 428, § 2. 
Baker v. McAllister, 2 W. T., 48; 3 P., 581. 
§ 1253. Owner's lien for logs cut on his land. Any person who
shall permit another to go upon his timber land and cut thereon saw logs, 
spars, piles or other timber, has a lien upon the same for the price agreed
to be paid for such privilege, or for the price such privilege would be
reasonably worth in case there was no express agreement fixing the price. 
-Laws of 1893, p. 429, § 3·
§ 1254. Liens preferred claims-Sale not to divest. The liens pro­ 
vided for in this chapter are preferred liens and are prior to any other liens,
and no sale or transfer of any saw logs, spars, piles or other timber or man- 
ufactured lumber or shingles shall divest the lien thereon as herein provided,
and as between liens provided for in this act those for work and labor shall
be preferred: Provided, That as between liens for work and labor claimed
by several laborers on the same logs or lot of logs the claim or claims for
work or labor done or performed on the identical logs proceeded against to
the extent that said logs can be identified, shall be preferred as against the
general claim of lien for work and labor recognized and provided for in this 
act.-Laws of 1893, p. 429, § 4· 
Baxter v. Smith, 2 W. T., 97; 4 P., 35. Munholland v. Ault, 32 P., 294. 
§ 1255. Lien for eight months' labor only allowed. The person
rendering the service (ofJ(or] doing the work or labor named in sections 1 
and 2 of this act is only entitled to the liens as provided herein for services,
work or labor for the period of eight calendar months, or any part thereof
next preceding the filing of the claim, as provided in section 8 of this act. 
-Laws of 1893, p. 429, § 5· 
§ 1256. Same as to owner of land. The person granting the privi­
lege mentioned in section 3 [ 1252] of this act is only entitled to the lien as
provided therein for saw logs, spars, piles and other timber cut during the
eight months next preceding the filing of the claim, as herein provided in 
the next succeeding section of this act.-Laws of 1893, p. 429, § 6. 
§ 1257. Lien claim must be filed within thirty days. Every per­
son, within thirty days after the close of the rendition of the services, or
after the close of the work or labor mentioned in the preceding sections, 
claiming the benefit hereof, must file for record with the county auditor of
the county in which such saw logs, spars, piles and other timber were
cut, or in which such lumber or shingles were manufactured, a claim con­
taining a statement of his demand and the amount thereof, after deduct­
ing as nearly as possible all just credits and offsets, with the name of the
person by whom he was employed, with a statement of the terms and con­
ditions of his contract, if any, and in case there is no express contract, the
claim shall state what such service, work or labor is reasonably worth ; and
it shall also contain a description of the property to be charged with the
lien sufficient for identification with reasonable certainty, which claim must
be verified by the oath of himself or some other person to the effect that
the affiant believes the same to be true, which claim shall be substantially
in the following form : 
§ 1258. Form of lien notice. 
·------------· Claimant, vs. -------------··
Notice is hereby given that·------------- of. county, State of Wash- 
ington, claims a lien upon a of , being about _
in quantity, which were cut or manufactured in------------- county, State of 
Washington, are marked thus , and are now lying in·--·---------·' for
labor performed upon and assistance rendered in · said ; 
that the name of the owner or reputed owner is ; that _
employed ·------------· said to perform such labor and render such 
assistance upon the following terms and conditions, to wit:
The said·------------- agreed to pay the said ·------------· for such labor and 
assistance ; that said contract has been faithfully performed and
fully complied with on the part of said ·------------·' who performed labor 
upon and assisted in said for the period of·--·····------;
_that said labor and assistance were so performed and rendered upon said 
-------------· between the·------- day of------------- and the·-------· day of _ 
and the rendition of said service was closed on the-------- day of ,
and thirty days have not elapsed since that time ; that the amount of 
claimant's demand for said Service is ; that no part thereof has
been paid except , and there is now due and remaining unpaid 
thereon, after deducting all just credits and offsets, the sum of ,
in which amount he claims a lien upon said-------------· The said------------ 
also claims a lien on all said now owned by said·------------ of
said county to secure payment for the work and labor performed in obtain­ 
ing or securing the said logs, spars, piles or other timber, lumber or shingles
herein described. 
State of Washington, county of ss.
-------------· being first duly sworn, on oath says that he is----·--·-----· named 
in the foregoing claim, has heard the same read, knows the contents thereof,
and believes the same to be true. 
Subscribed and sworn to before me this day of . 
-Laws of 1893, p. 429, § 7· 
'f>exter Horton & Co. v. Wiley, 2 W., 171; 25 P., 1071. Dexter Horton & Co. v.
Sparkman, 2 W., 165; 25 P., 1<>70. Doyle v. McLeod, 31 P., g6; 4 W., 732.
Wheeler v. Port Blakely Mill Co., 2 W. T., 71; 3 P., 635. Baxter v. Smith, 
2 W. T., 97; 4 P., 35~ 
§ 1259. Bame for owner of land. Every person mentioned in sec­
tion three of this act claiming the benefit thereof must file for record
with the county auditor of the county in which such saw logs, spars, 
piles or other timber were cut, a claim in substance the same as provided
in the next preceding section of this act, and verified as therein pro­ 
vided. -Laws of 1893, p. 431, § 8. 
§ 126o. Record of loggers' liens in auditor's ofBce. The county
auditor must record any claim filed under this act in a book kept by him 
for that purpose, which record must be indexed, as deeds and other con­
veyances are required by law to be indexed, and for which he may receive
the same fees as are allowed by law for recording deeds and other instru­ 
ments.-Laws of 1893, p. 431, § 9.
Jewett v. Darlington, 1 W. T., 6o1. 
§ 1261. Action must be begnn within eight months-Extension. 
No lien provided for in this act binds any saw logs, spars, piles or other
timber, or lumber and shingles, for a longer period than eight calendar
months after the claim as herein provided has been filed, unless a civil
action be commenced in a proper court, within that time, to enforce the
same : Provided, kowroer, That in case such civil action so commenced
should for any cause other than the merits, be non-suited or dismissed,
then the lien shaU continue for the term of one calendar month, if the
said eight months have expired, to permit the commencement of another
action thereon, which shall be as effective in prolonging the lien as if it
had been entered during the term of eight months hereinbefore stated.­ 
Laws of 1893, p. 431, § IO. 
§ 1262. Enforced by civil action. The liens provided for in this act
shall be enforced by a civil action in the superior court of the county
wherein the lien was filed, and shall be governed by the laws regulating
the proceedings in civil actions touching the mode and manner of trial, and
the proceedings and laws to secure property so as to hold it for the satis- 
faction of any lien that be against it; except as hereinafter otherwise
provided.-Laws of 1893, p. 431, § 11. 
Installment B. & L. Co. V; Wentworth, 25 P., 298; I W., 467. 
§ 1263. Sheriff to act as receiver. The sheriff of the county
wherein the lien is filed shall be a receiver for the purpose of this act, and 
shall oe allowed such fees as may seem just to the court for services per­
formed as such receiver, but such fees shall be accounted for by said sher­
iff, as other fees accruing to him for services performed in his office of 
sheriff.-Laws of 1893, p. 432, § 12. 
§ 1264. Defendant must answer to merits-Speedy trial-Amend­
ments. If the defendant or defendants appear in a suit to enforce any
lien provided by this act he or they shall make their answer on the merits
of the complaint, and any motion or demurrer against the said complaint
must be filed with the answer; and no motion shall be allowed to make
complaint more definite and certain, if it appear to the court that the de­
fendant or defendants have or should have knowledge of the facts, or that
it can be made more certain and definite by facts which will appear neces­
sarily in the testimony; but the case, unless the court sustains the de­
murrer to the complaint, shall be heard on the merits as speedily as pos­
sible, and amendments of the pleadings, if necessary, shall be liberally 
allowed.-Laws of 1893, p. 432, § 13. 
§ 1265. Lien for total amount of wages on whole or part of boom­
Speciflc liens. Any person who shall bring a civil action to enforce the
lien herein provided for, or any person having a lien as herein provided 
for, who shall be made a party to any such civil action, has the right to
demand that such lien be enforced against the whole or any part of the
saw logs, spars, piles or other timber or manufactured lumber or shingles
upon which he has performed labor or which he has assisted in securing
or obtaining, or which he has cut on his timber land during the eight
months next preceding the filing of his lien, for all his labor upon or for
all his assistance in obtaining or securing said logs, spars, piles or other
timber, or in manufacturing said lumber or shingles during the· whole or
any part of the eight months mentioned in section seven (7) of this act,
or for timber cut during the whole or any part of the eight months above
mentioned. And where proceedings are commenced against any lot of
saw logs, spars, piles or other timber or lumber or shingles as herein pro­
vided, and some of the lienors claim liens against the specific logs, spars,
piles or other timber or lumber or shingles proceeded against, and others
against the same generally, to secure their claims for work and labor, the
priority of the liens shall be determined as herein before provided. -Laws 
of 1893, p. 432, § 14. 
§ 1266. Errors in statement or description not to invalidate. No
mistake or error in the statement of the demand, or of the amount of
credits and offsets allowed, or of the balance asserted to be due to claim­
ant, nor in the description of the property against which the claim is
filed, shall invalidate the lien, unless the court finds that such mistake or
error in the statement of the demand, credits and offsets or of the balance
due was made with intent to defraud, or the court shall find that an inno­
cent third party without notice, direct or constructive, has, since the claim
was filed, become the bona fide owner of the property liened upon, and
that the notice of claim was so deficient that it did not put the party up­ 
on further inquiry, in any manner. -Laws of 1893, p. 433, § 15. 
§ 1267. Purchaser buys subject to lien, unleBB. It shall be conclu­
sively presumed by the court that a party purchasing the property liened 
upon within thirty days given herein to claimants wherein to file their
liens, is not an innocent third party, nor that he has become a bona fide
owner of the property liened upon, unless it shall appear that he has paid
full value for the said property, and has seen that the purchase money of the
said property has been applied to the payment of such bona fide claims as 
are entitled to liens upon the said property under the provisions of this act,
according to the priorities herein established.-Lawsef 1893, p. 433, § 16. 
§ 1268. Several claimants may join-Actions may be consolidated
-Attorney's fees. Any number of persons claiming liens under this
act may join in the affidavit in section 14 of this act provided, and may
join in the same action, and when separate actions are commenced the
court may consolidate them. The court shall also allow as part of the
costs the moneys paid for filing, making and recording the claim, and a
reasonable attorney's fee for each person claiming a lien.-Laws of 1893, 
p. 433, § x.7. 
Chevret v. Mechanics Mill & Lum. Co., 31 P., 24; 4 W., 721. 
§ 1269. Sale on execution and distribution of proceeds. In each
civil action judgment must be rendered in favor of each person having a 
lien for the amount due him, and the court or judge thereof shall order
any property subject to the lien herein provided for to be sold by the sher­
iff of the proper county in the same manner: that personal property is
sold on execution, and the court or judge shall apportion the proceeds of
such sale to the payment of each judgment, according to the priorities
established in this act pro rata in its class according to the amount of such 
judgment.-Laws of 1893, p. 434, § 18. 
§ 1270. Sale to be ordered before judgment-Proceeds to be paid
into court. The court or judge may order any property subject to a lien
as in this act provided to be sold by the sheriff as personal property is sold
on execution either before or at the time judgment is rendered, as pro­
vided in section next preceding, and the proceeds of such sale must be
paid into court to be applied as in said section directed.-Laws ef 1893, 
p. 434, § 19. 
§ 1271. Judgment for damages for destroying identity of logs,
etc. Any person who shall eloign, injure or destroy, or who shall render
difficult, uncertain or impossible of identification any saw logs, spars,
piles, shingles or other timber upon which there is a lien as herein pro­
vided, without the express consent of the person entitled to such lien,
shall be liable to the lien holder for the damages to the amount secured by
his lien, and it being shown to the court in the civil action to enforce said
lien,· it shall be the duty of the court to enter a personal judgment for the
amount in such action against the said person, provided he be a party to
such action, or the damagesmay be recovered by a civil action against 
such person.-Laws o/ 1893, p. 434, § 20. 
§ 1272. [1678.*] For what given-Order of priority-Three years
limitation. All steamers, vessels and boats, their tackle, apparel and
furniture are liable: 
I For services rendered on board at the request of, or on contract with
their respective owners, masters, agents or consignees. 
2. For supplies furnished in this territory for their use, at the request
of their respective owners, masters, agents or consignees. 
3. For work done or material furnished in this territory for their con­
struction, repair, or equipment, at the request of their respective owners,
masters, agents, consignees, contractors, subcontractors, or other person or
persons having charge in whole or in part of their construction, altera­
tion, repair, or equipment ; and every contractor, subcontractor, builder,
or person having charge, either in whole or in part, of the construction, 
alteration, repair or equipment of any vessel shall be held to be the agent
of the owner for the purposes of this chapter. 
4. For their wharfage and anchorage within the territory.
5. For non-performance or malperformance of any contract for the 
transportation of persons or property between places within the territory,
or to or from places within this territory, made by their respective own­
ers, masters, agents or consignees. 
6. For injuries committed by them to persons or property within this
territory, or while transporting such persons or property to or from this
territory. 
Demands for these several causes constitute liens upon all steamers, ves­
sels and boats, and their tackle, apparel and furniture, and have priority
in their-order herein enumerated, and have preference over all other de­
mands ; but such liens only continue in force for the period of three years
from the time the cause of action accrued.-Code of 1881, § 1939. 
Lake v. The Manhattan, 46 Fed., 797. Wash. Iron Works Co. v. Jansen, 3 W.,
584; 28 P., 1019. The Lottawana, 21 Wall., 558. 
NoTJt: The following section immediately follows the preceding in the code of
1881: 
Such liens may be enforced, in all cases of maritime contracts or service, by a suit
in admiralty, in rem, and the law regulating proceedings in e.dmiralt:r shall govern
in all such suits ; and in all cases of contracts or service not maritime, by a civil
action in any district court in this territory.-Code of 1881, § 1940. 
CHAPTER XCIX. 
UENS FOR STORAGE AND CHARGES. 
I 1273. Lien given for unpaid freight and
storage charges. 
i 1274- Live stock and perishable property may
'be sold. 
i 1275. Other property may be sold on ten
days' notice. 
i 12']6. Disposition of proceeds of sales. 
i 1277. Lien not to affect special contract. 
i 1278. Notices given as of sale of personal
property on execution. 
§ 1273. [1699.*] Liengivenforunpaidfreightandatoragecharges. 
Whenever property upon which charges for advances, freight, transporta- 
• 
tion, wharfage, or storage, due and unpaid, and a lien shall remain and be
held in store by the person, or persons in whose favor such lien exists, un­
called for, it shall be lawful for such person or persons to cause such prop­
erty to be sold as herein provided.-Code of 1881, § 1980. 
§ 1274. [1700.*] Live stock and perishable property may be sold. 
If said property consists of live stock, the maintenance of which at the
place where kept is wasteful and expensive in proportion to the value of
the animals, or other of the perishable property liable, if kept, to destruc­
tion, waste ot great depreciation, the person or persons having such lien
may sell the same upon giving ten days' notice.-Code of 1881, § 1981. 
§ 1275. [1701.*] Other property may be sold on ten days' notice . 
.All other property upon which such charges may be unpaid, due, and a
lien after the same shall have remained in store uncalled for, for a period
of thirty days after such charges shall have become due, may be sold by
the person or persons having a lien for the payment of such charges upon
giving ten days' notice : Provided, That where the property can be con­
veniently divided into separate lots or parcels, no more lots or parcels shall
be sold than shall be sufficient to pay the charges due on the day of sale,
and the expenses of the sale.--Code of 1881, § 1982. 
§ 1276. [1702.*] Disposition of proceeds of sales. The moneys
arising from sales made under the provisions of this chapter shall first be
applied to the payment of the costs and expenses of the sale, and then to 
the payment of the lawful charges of the person or persons having a lien
thereon for advances, freight, transportation, wharfage or storage, for
whose benefit the sale shall [have] been made; the surplus, if any, shall he
retained, subject to the future lawful charge of the person or persons for
whose benefit the sale was made, upon the property of the same owner
still remaining in store uncalled for.l if any there be, and to the demand of
the owner of the property who shall have paid -such charges or otherwise
satisfied such lien, and all moneys remaining uncalled for, for the period
of three months, shall be paid to the county treasurer, and shall remain in
his hands a special fund for the benefit of the lawful claimant thereof.­ 
Code of 1881, § 1983.
§ 1277. [1703.*] Lien not to affect special contract. Nothing in 
this chapter contained shall be so construed as to alter or affect the terms
of any special contract in writing, made by the parties as to the advances,
affreightment, wharfage or storage ; but when any such special contract
shall have been made, its terms shall govern irrespective of this chapter. 
-Code of 1881, § 1984. 
§ 127& [1704.*] Notices given as of sale of personal property on
execution. All notices required under this chapter shall be given as is or
may be by law provided in cases of sales of personal property upon execu­ 
tion.-Code of 1881, § 1985. 
CHAPTER C. 
PREFERRED CI.AIMS FOR WAGltS. 
I 1279- In insolvency, wages for sixty days I 128o. Rank of wag~ on death of employtt.
preferred. i 1281. Proceedings to recover preferred wages. 
§ 1279. [3122.*] In insolvency, -wages for sixty days preferred. 
In all assignments of property made by any person to trustees or as- 
signees on account of the inability of the person at the time of the assign­
ment to pay his debts, or on proceedings in insolvency the wages of the
miners, mechanics, salesmen, servants, clerks or laborers employed by
such persons to the amount of one hundred dollars, each, and for services
rendered within sixty days previously are preferred claims, and must be
paid by such trustees or assignees before any other creditor or creditors of
the assignor.-Code of 1881, § 1972. 
§ 1280. [3123.*] ~nk of wages on death of employer. In case of
the death of any employer, the wages of each miner, mechanic, salesman, 
clerk, servant and laborer for services rendered within sixty days next
preceding the death of the employer, not .eJtceeding one hundred dollars,
rank in priority next aft.er the funeral expl:nses, expenses of the last sick-,
ness, the charges and expenses of administering upon the estate and the
allowance to the widow and infant children, and must be paid before other
claims against the estate of the deceased person.-Code of 1881, § 1973. 
§ 1281. [3124. *] Proceedings to recover preferred wages. In cases
of executions, attachments and writs of similar nature issued against any 
person, except for claims for labor done, any miners, mechanics, salesmen,
servants, clerks and laborers who have claims against the defendant for
labor done, may give notice of their claims and the amount thereof,
sworn to by the person making the claim to the creditor and the officer
executing either of such writs at any time before the actual sale of prop­
erty levied on, and unless such claim is disputed by the debtor or a cred­
itor, such officer must pay to such person out of the proceeds of the sale,
the amount each is entitled to receive for services rendered within sixty
days next preceding the levy of the writ, not exceeding one hundred dol­
lars. If any or all the claims so presented and claiming preference under
this chapter, are disputed by either the debtor or a creditor, the person
presenting the same must commence an action within ten days [from] 
Uor] the recovery thereof, and must prosecute bis action with due dili­
gence, or be forever barred from any claim of priority of payment there­
of; and the officer shall retain possession of so much of the proceeds of
the sale as may be necessary to satisfy such claim, until the determination
of such action; and in case judgment be had for the claim or any part
thereof, carrying costs, the costs taxable therein shall likewise be a pre­
ferred claim, with the same rank as the original claim.-Code of 1881, 
§ 1974.
Mohle v. Tschirch, 63 Cal., 382. Carter v. Green Ml. G. :M. Co., 23 P., 317; 83 
Cal., 222. 
NOT:a: The three foregoing sections constitute a separate chapter as originally
enacted, and not a part of the chapter giving liens on farm products as com­
piled in the code of 1881. See Laws of 1877, p. 223. 
LIENS ON FARM PRODUCTS. 
i 1282. I.aborer's lien for wages and landlord's I 1284- Claim to be verified and filed within
for rent. forty day&-How enforced. 
i 1283- I.ien to ban preference Q:cept u to 
lessor's interest. 
CHAPTER CI. 
§ 1282. [1695.*] Laborer's lien for wages and landlord's for rent. 
Any person who shall do labor upon any farm or land, in tilling the same 
or in sowing or harvesting or threshing any grain, as laborer, contractor
or otherwise, or laboring upon, or securing or assisting in securing or
housing any crop or crops sown, raised or threshed thereon during the
year in which said work or labor was done, such person shall have a lien
upon all such crops as shall have been raised upon all or any of such land,
for such work or labor, and every landlord shall have a lien upon the crops
grown or growing upon the demised lands of any year for the rents accrued
or accruing for such year, whether the same is paid wholJy or in part in
money or specific articles of property, or products of ·the premises, or labor,
and also for the faithful performance of the lease ; and the lien created by
the provisions of this act shall be a preferred lien and shall be prior to all
other liens.--Laws of 1891, p.· 144, § 1. 
Mohr v. Clark, 3 W. T., 440; · 19 P., 28. Hogue v. Sheri.ff of Lewis Co., 1 W.
T., 172. 
§ 1283. Lien to have preference except as to lessor's interest. 
The liens provided for in Sec. 1975 [1282] are preferred liens, and are
prior to any other lien or encumbrance upon said crop or crops, except
that the interest of any lessors in any portion of the crops raised, where
the premises are leased in consideration of a share of the crop raised, shall 
not be subject to such lien.-Code of 1881, § 1976 and Laws of 1883, p.
45, § I. 
§ 1284. (1696.*] Olaim to be verified and flied within forty days
-How enforced. Any person claiming the benefit of this chapter, must
within forty (40) days after the close of said work and labor, or after the
expiration of the term, or after the expiration of each year of the lease,
for which any lands were demised, file for record with the county auditor
of the county in which said work and labor was performed, or said de­
mised lands are situated, a claim which shall be in substance in accordance
with the provisions of section nineteen hundred and forty-seven (1947) so
far as the same may be applicable, which said claim shall be verified as in
said section provided, and said liens may be enforced in a civil action in
the same manner, as near as may be, as provided in section nineteen hun­
dred and fifty-one (1951); provided, that the lien hereby created in favor
of landlords shall only apply when the lease has been recorded.-Laws of" 
1887-8, p. 130, § 2. 
NOTB: Some of the provisions of the following section, which immediately fol­
lows the foregoing section in the Code of 1881, may still be in force. "This chapter," as used in the following section, evidently includes only sections 
1282 to 1284, as originally enacted.-see Laws of 1877, p. 223. 
All rights secured to the holders of liens upon logs, under the provisions of cha)?­
ter 137, shall inure to the benefit of those holding liens under the J?rovisions of this chapter, and the said lien holders hereunder, shall have the same nght to have their
liens recorded, the same right of foreclosure, of joinder of parties, of judgment over
against the person primarily liable, and against any person who shall injure or im­
pair their lien or any of their rights, as are above secured to the holders of liens
upon logs, under said chapter one hundred and thirty-seven.-Code of 1881, ~ 1978. 
CHAPTER CII. 
LIENS FOR BOARDING LIVE STOCK.
f 1285. Lien given for amount due for keeping i u86, Lien to be enforced by action-Rxecu· 
11tocl:-P01111et1Sion. tion and sale. 
§ 1285. [1705.*] Lien given for amount due for keeping stock­
Possession. Any farmer, ranchman, herder of cattle, tavern keeper, liv- 
ery and boarding stable keeper to whom any horses, mules, cattle or sheep
shall be intrusted for the purpose of feeding, herding, pasturing, training,
caring for or ranching, shall have a lien upon said horses, mules, cattle or
sheep for the amount that may be due for such feeding, herding, pastur­
ing, training, caring for or ranching, and shall be authorized to retain pos­
session of such horses, mules, cattle or sheep until the said amount is
paid : Provided, That these provisions shall not be construed to apply to 
stolen stock.-Laws of 1891, p. 151, § 1. 
~ 1286. [1706.*] Lien to be enforced by action-Execution and
sale. Any person having a lien under the provisions of section one of 
this act [ 1285] may enforce the same by an action in any court of competent
jurisdiction ; and said property may be sold on execution for the purpose 
of satisfying the amount of such judgment and costs of sale, together
with the proper costs of keeping the same up to the time of said sale.­ 
Laws of 1891, p. 151, § 2. 
N oTB : This act concludes with an emergency clause, making it in effect after
its approval.-Approved March 4, 1891. 
I 1287. Lien upon trcspaalling animals doing
damaj[e. 
I 1288. Notice to owner within twenty-four
hours. 
i 1289. Notice to be posted if owner unknown. 
i 1290. Action may be begun twenty-four
hours after notice. 
I 1291. Judgment for damages-Sale of ani­
mals. 
i 1292. Case continued if defendant not owner. 
i 1293. If owner unknown, notice to be pub­
lished or posted. 
i 1294. Disposition of surplus from sale. 
i 1295. Justice of the peace to have jurisdic­
tion. 
. § 1287. Lien upon trespassing animals doing damage. Any person
suffering damage done by any horses, mares, mules, asses, cattle, goats, 
sheep, swine or any such animals, which shall trespass upon any cultivated
land, enclosed by lawful fence, may retain and keep in custody such
offending animals until the owner of such animals shall pay such damage
and costs, or until good and sufficient security be given for the same.­ 
Laws of 1893, p. 46, § 1. 
§ 1288. Notice to owner within twenty-four hours. Whenever any
animals are restrained as provided in section I of this act, the person re­
straining such animals shall within twenty-four hours thereafter notify in
writing the owner, or person in whose custody the same was at the time
the trespass was committed, of the seizure of such animals, and the prob­
able amount of the damages sustained : Provided, He knows to whom 
such animals belong.-Laws of 1893, p. 46, § 2. 
§ 1289. Notice to be posted if owner unknown. If the owner or the
person having in charge or possession of such animals is unknown to the
person sustaining the damage, the notice provided in section 2 of this act 
[1288] shall be given by posting three notices, in three public places in the
neighborhood where the animals are restrained, for ten days.-Laws of 
1893, p. 47, § 3. 
CHAPTER CIII. 
TRESPASSING DOMESTIC ANIMALS. 
§ 1290. Action may be begun twenty-four hours after notice. If
the owner or person having such animals in charge fails or refuses to pay 
the damages done by such animals, or give satisfactory security for the
same within twenty-four hours from the time the notice was served, if
served personally; and within ten days from the date of posting of the no­
tice as provided in section 3 [ 1289] the person damaged may commence a
suit, before any court having jurisdiction thereof, against the owner of
such animals, or against the persons having the same in charge, or posses­
sion, when the trespass was committed, if known ; and if unknown, the
defendant shall be designated as John Doe, and the proceedings shall be
the same in all respects as in other civil actions, except as herein modified. 
-Laws of 1893, p. 47, § 4· 
§ 1291. Judgment for damages-Sale of animals. Upon the trial
of an action as herein provided the plaintiff shall prove the amount of
damages sustained and the amount of expenses incurred for keeping the
offending animals, and any judgment rendered for damages, costs, and ex­
penses against the defendant shall be a lien upon such animals committing
the damage, and the same may be sold and the proceeds shall be applied
in full satisfaction of the judgment as in other cases of sale of personal
property on execution: Provided, That no judgment shall be continued
against the defendant for any deficiency over the amount realized on the
sale of such animals, if it shall appear upon the trial that no damage was
sustained, or that a tender was made and paid into court of an amount
equal to the damage and costs, then judgment shall be rendered against
the plaintiff for costs of suit and damage sustained by defendant.--Laws 
of 1893, p. 47, § 5.
§ 1292. Case continued if defendant not owner. If upon the trial it 
appears that the defendant is not the owner or person in charge of such of­
fending animals, the case shall be continued, and proceedings had as in the
next section provided, if the proper defendant be unknown to plaintiff.­ 
Laws of 1893, P· 47, § 6. 
§ 1293. If owner unknown, notice to be published or posted. If
the owner or keeper of such offending animals is unknown to plaintiff at 
the commencement of the action, or if un the trial it appears that the de­
fendant is not the proper party, defendant, and the proper party is unknown,
service of the summons or notice shall be made by publication, by publish­
ing a copy of the summons or notice, with a notice attached, stating the
object of the action and giving a description of the animals seized, in a
weekly newspaper published nearest to the residence of the plaintiff, if
there be one published in the county ; and if not, by posting said sum­
mons or notice with said notice attached in three public places in the
county, in either case not less than ten days previous to the day of trial.­ 
Laws of 1893, p. 48, § 7· 
§ 1294. Disposition of surplus from sale. If when such animals are
sold, there remains a surplus of money, over the amount of the judgment 
and costs, it shall be deposited with the county treasurer, by the officer
making the sale, and if the owner of such animals does not appear and
call for the same, within six months from the day of sale, it shall be paid
into the school fund, for the use of the public schools of said county.­ 
Laws of 1893, p. 48, § 8. 
§ 1295. Justice of the peace to have jurisdiction. Justices of the
peace shall have exclusive jurisdiction of all actions and proceedings under 
this act when the damages claimed do not exceed one hundred dollars: 
Provided, kowever, That any party considering himself aggrieved shall have
the right of appeal to the superior court as in other cases. -Laws o/ · 1893, 
p. 48, § 9· · 
CHAPTER CV. 
MORTGAGES OF REAL ESTATE.
i 121)13. Form of rut eatate mortgages. I 1301. Mortgagee must satisfy-Twenty-five 
I 1299. Acknowledgment. dollars penalty-Order of court to 
I 1300. Satisfaction of mortl[aJ{es. cancel. 
§ 1298. [1647.*] l'orm of -real estate mortgages. Mortgages of
land may be in the following form, substantially : The mortgagor (here
insert name or names), mortgages to (here insert name or names of mort­ 
gagee or mortgagees) to secure the payment of (here recite the nature and
amount of indebtedness, showing when due, rate of interest, and whether
secured by note or not) the following described real estate (here insert de­
scription), situated in the county of --, Washington territory, dated
this -- day of--, 18-. 
Every such mortgage[s], when otherwise properly executed, shall be
deemed and held a good and sufficient [conveyances] and mortgage to secure
the payment of the money therein specified. The parties may insert in
such mortgage any lawful agreement or condition.-Laws of 1887-8, p. 
51, § I. 
CHAPTER CIV. 
CONSTRUCTION OF LIENS. 
I 1296. Meaning of various terms. I 1297. Liberal construction. 
§ 1296. ] 1707. *] Meaning of various terms. In construing the pro­
visions of the lien law words used in the masculine gender include the
feminine and neuter, the singular number includes the plural, and the plural
the singular ; the word person includes a corporation as well as a natural 
persqn. and the word writing'includesprinting.-Code o/ 1881, § 1979. 
§ 1297. [1708.*] Liberal construction. This act establishes the law
of this territory respecting the subject to which it relates, and its provisions
and all proceedings under it are to be liberally construed, with a view to 
effect its object.-Code of 1881, § 1981. 
TITLE II. 
MORTGAGES. 
CHAPTER 105. Mortgages ,of Real Estate.
CHAPTER 1o6. Chattel Mortgages.
CHAPTER 107. Foreclosure of Chattel Mortgages. 
Miller v. Ansenig, 2 W. T., 22; 3 P., III. 
§ 1299. [1437.*] Acknowledgment. A certificate of acknowledg­
ment, substantially in the following form, shall be sufficient. 
Territory of ·Washington,}
County of--. ss. 
I, (here give name. of officer and official title) do hereby certify that on
this -- day of -- 18-, personally appeared before me (name of
grantor, and if acknowledged by wife, her name, and add" his wife") to
me known to be the individual or individuals described in and who exe­
cuted the within instrument, and acknowledged that he (she or they)
signed and sealed the same as his (her or their) free and voluntary act
and deed, for the uses and purposes therein mentioned. Given under my
hand and official seal this -- day of-- A. D. 18-. 
(Signature of officer.)
-Laws of 1887-8, p. 52, § 2. In effect Marek Isl, I888. 
For act abolishing seals see laws of 1887-8, p. 184, § 1; in effect February znd,
1888. As to witnesses see laws of 1887-8, p. so, and of 1889-90, p. 89, § 1.
As to defective acknowledgments see laws of 1867, p. 93, and of 1873, p. 
481, also sections 1427-1438, of Vol. 1, H. C., 2316-2332, code of 1881. Carl­
son v. Railsback, 3 W. T., 168; 13 P., 618. Kenyon v. Knipe, 2 W. T., 422; 
7 P., 854. Skellinger v. Smith, 1 W. T., 369. 
§ 1300. [ 166o. *] Satisfaction of mortgages. That whenever the
amount due on any mortgage is paid and satisfied, the mortgagee or his 
legal representatives shall, at the request of the mortgagor or his author­
ized agent, acknowledge satisfaction of the same in the margin of the
page upon which the mortgage is recorded, or by executing an instrument
referring to the mortgage, specifically describing the property mortgaged,
giving the amount for which it was given to secure, the date of execution,
and date of record of. said mortgage, and shall acknowledge satisfaction in
full of the same, which shall be duly acknowledged and recorded upon
the records of the county wherein the mortgage is recorded.-Laws of 
1885-6, p. 116, § i. 
People v. Keyser, 28 N. Y., 226. 
§ 1301. [1661.*] :Mortgagee must satisfy-Twenty-flve dollars
penalty-Order of court to cancel. If the mortgagee shall fail so to
do after sixty days from the date of such request or demand, he shall for­
feit and pay to the mortgagor the sum of twenty-five dollars, to be recov­
ered in any court having competent jurisdiction, and said court, when
convinced that said mortgage has been fully satisfied, shall issue an order
in writing, directing the auditor to cancel said mortgage, and the auditor
shall immediately record the order and cancel the mortgage as directed by
the court, upon the margin of the page upon which the mortgage is re­
corded, making reference thereupon to the order of the court and to the
page where the order is recorded.-Laws of 1885-6, p. 117, § 2. 
§ 1302. [1646. *] What may be mortgaged. Mortgages may be made
upon all kinds of personal property, and upon the rolling stock of a rail­ 
road company, and upon all kinds of machinery, and upon boats and ves­
sels, and on growing crops, and on portable mills and such like property. 
-Code of 1881, § 1986.
Ephraim v. Kelleper, 29 P., 985; 4 W., 243. Silsby v. Aldridge, 1 W., 117; 23 
P., 836. Kerron v. Lumber Co., 1 W., 241; 24 P., 445. Marsh v. Wade, 1
W., 538; 20 P., 578. Langert v. Brown, 3 W. T., 102 ; 13 P., 704. Wine­
burgh v. Schaer, 2 W. T., 328; 5 P., 299- Byrd v. Forbes, 3 W. T., 318; 13
P., 715. Levyv. Sheehan, 23 P., 8o2; 1 W., 149. Hays v. Miller, 1 W. T., 143. 
§ 1303. [1648.*] Void unless aflldavit of good faith attached. A 
mortgage of personal property is void as against creditors of the mortgagor
or subsequent purchaser[s], and encumbrance[r]s of the property for value
and in good faith, unless it is accompanied by the affidavit of the mort­
gagor that it is made in good faith, and without any design to hinder,
delay, or defraud creditors, and it is acknowledged and recorded in the
same manner as is required by law in conveyance of real property.-Code 
of 1881, § 1987. . 
§ 1304. [1647.*] Must be recorded-Etfect of removal. A mort­
gage of personal property must be recorded in the office of the county
auditor of the county in which the mortgaged property [it] [i's] situated, in a
book kept exclusively for that purpose. When personal property mort­ 
gaged is thereafter removed from the county in which it is situated, it is,
as except between the parties to the mortgage, exempted from the opera­
tion thereof, unless either : 
1. The mortgagee within thirty days after such removal causes the
mortgage to be recorded in the county to which the property has been re- 
m~ed; M · 
2. The mortgage be recorded in the custom house ; or
3. The mortgagee within thirty days after such removal takes posses­ 
sion of the property : Provided, That a mortgage on any vessel or boat, or part of a vessel or boat, over twenty tons burden, shall be recorded in the
office of the collector of customs, where such vessel is registered, enrolled
or licensed and need not be recorded elsewhere. -Code of 188 1, § 1988. 
Darland v. Levins, 1 W. 582; 20 P., 309. Baxterv. Smith, 2 W. T., 97; 4 P., 35.
Robertson v. Elliott, 22 Wall., 513. 
§ 1305. [1658.*] When property may be taken from mortgagor
and sold. A mortgage[e] of personal property, where a debt for the
security of which the mortgage[e] has been given, has become due, or if
the deht is not yet due, and the mortgagee has reasonable ground to be­
lieve that his debt is insecure, and that by allowing the property longer to 
remain in the hands of the mortgagor, he would be in danger of losing his
debt or security, may have the property taken from the possession of the
mortgagor, and sold in the manner provided in this chapter.t-Code of 
1881, § 1989.
Silsby v. Aldridge, 23 P., 836; I W., ivt, Kerron v. N. P. Lum. Co., 24 P., 445; 
I W., 241. Byrn v. Forbes, 3 W. T., 318·;• 13 P., 715. . 
§ 13o6. [1659.*] Judicialsales of mortgagor's interest. The inter­
~t of the mortgagor, subject, however, to the lien of the mortgagee, may 
be sold under any process of law, issuing out of any district court or jus­
tice of the peace court, in this territory: Provided, however, That if the
party, who has said mortgage, reside in this territory, or has an agent
herein, and the same is known 'to the officer executing such process, he
shall serve upon him or his agent personally, or by mailing to him or to
his agent, if their postoffice is known,· a notification of the intended sale,
at the time such mortgaged property is seized under said process, or with­
in five days thereafter. Said property shall not be sold within less than
thirty days after its seizure; and the officer, executing such process, must
post in three public places, near the place where the said property is to be
sold, a notice of the time and place of such sale, at the time he seizes said
property under said process. - Code of 1881, § 1990. 
Byrd v. Forbes, 3 W. T., 318; I.JP., 715. 
§ 1307. [1657.*] When action may be begun before debt uue. 
Where the debt is not due for which the mortgage is given, and the mort­
gagee has reasonable cause to believe that the mortgaged property will be
destroyed, lost, or removed, he shall have the right to an immediate action
in the district court of the county having jurisdiction where the property
is situated, for the recovery of his debt, and the court may make any order
it may deem fit, in order to secure said property so as to make the same
available for the satisfaction of said debt.-Coa'e of 1881, § 1998. 
Langert v. Brown, 3 W. T., 102; 13 P., 704. 
§ •308. Penalty for fraudulent disposition of mortgaged property. 
That any mortgagor of personal property, or the successor in interest ot
such mortgagor, who, with intent to hinder, delay or defraud the mort­
gagee thereof, or his or her assigns or legal representatives, shall injure or
destroy such property or any part thereof, or shall conceal such property or
any part thereof, or shall remove the same or any part thereof from the
county where it was situated at the date of the mortgage before it is duly
released, without the consent in writing of the mortgagee, or shall sell or
dispose of the same, or any interest therein, where he parts with the pos­
session thereof, without the consent in writing of the mortgagee, he shall 
be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall be
punished by imprisonment in the county jail for a period not to exceed
six months or by a fine of not more than twice the value of such prop­
erty, or by both such fine and imprisonment.-Laws of 1893, p. 224, § 1. 
Wineburgh v. Schaer, 2 W. T., 328-335; 5 P., 299. Ephraim v. Kelleher, 29 P.,
g85; 4 W., 243. Robertson v. Elliott, 22 Wall., 513. 
f 1309, Kay be forecloeed by notice and sale. 
I 1310. Contents of notice. 
f 1311. Served same u summons. 
CHAPTER CVII. 
FORECLOSURE OF CHA TTltI. MORTGAO~. 
f 1312. Must also be publlahed-8alc u an a­
ccutlon. 
f 1313- Purchucn take mortgagor's interest. 
I 1314- Officer to giTc bill of sale. 
I 1315- Procttdinp may be contested in court. 
§ 1309. [1650.*] May be foreclosed by notice and sale.' Any mort­
gage of personal property, when the debt to secure which the mortgage 
was given is due, may be foreclosed by notice and sale as herein provided ;
or it may be foreclosed by action in the district court having jurisdiction in
the county irr which the property is situated.-Code of 1881, § 1991. 
See ff 939 and 940.
Frank v. Pickle v. 2 W. T., 55; 3 P., 584. Smith v. Ellis, 21 P., 385; 3 W. T., 328. 
~ 1310. [1651.*] Contents of notice. The noticemust contain a full
description of the property mortgaged, together with time and place of sale, 
also a statement of the amount due, and must be signed by the mortgagee
or his attorney.-Code of 1881, § 1992. 
§ 1311. [1652.*] Served same as summons. Such notice shall be 
placed in the hands of the sheriff or other proper officer, and shall be per­
sonally served, in the same manner as is provided by law for the service of
a summons : Provided, That if the mortgagor cannot be found in the
county where the mortgage is being foreclosed, it shall be necessary to ad­
vertise the notice or affidavit in a newspaper, but the general publication
directed in the next section shall be sufficient service upon all the parties
interested, and such notice shall be sufficient authority for the officer to
take such property into his immediate possession.e=Ceee of 1881, § 1993. 
Meacham Arms Co. v. Strong, 3 W. T., 61; 13 P., 245 .•
~ 1312. [1653.*] Must also be published-Sale as in execution. 
After notice has been served upon the mortgagor, it must be published in
the same manner and for the same length of time as required in cases of
the sale of like property on execution, and the sale shall be conducted in 
the same manner.-Code of 1881, § 1994. 
§ 1313. [1654.*] Purchasen take mortgagor's interest. The9pur­
chaser shall take all interest which the mortgagor had in the said mort­ 
gaged property upon which the said mortgage operated.-Code of 1881, 
§ 1995. . 
§ 1314. [1655.*] Officer to give bill of sale. The officer conducting
the sale shall execute to the purchaser a bill of sale of the property, which 
bill of sale shall be effectual to carry the whole title and interest purchased,
and if any balance of the purchase price remain, it shall be disposed of in
the same manner as surplus proceeds of sales are on execution.-Code of 
1881, § 1996. 
§ 1315. [1656.*] Proceedings may be contested in court. The right
of the mortgagee to foreclose, as well as the amount claimed to be due, 
may be contested by any person interested in so doing, and the proceed­
ings may be transferred to the district court, for which purpose an injunc­ 
tion may issue if necessary.-Code of 1881, § 1997. 
§ 1316. [845.] Powers of courts enuJV.erated. The superior courts,
in the exercise of their jurisdiction of matters of probate, shall have 
power:
1. To take proof of wills, and to grant letters testamentary and of ad­ 
ministration, and to qind apprentices as by law provided. 
2. To settle the estates of deceased persons and the accounts of execu­
tors, administrators and guardians. 
3. To allow or reject claims against the estates of deceased persons as
hereinafter provided. 
4. To hear and determine all controversies between masters and their
apprentices. 
5. To award process, and cause to come before them all persons whom
they may deem it necessary to examine, whether parties or witnesses, or
who, as executors, administrators or guardians, or otherwise, shall be
intrusted with or in any way accountable for any property belonging to a
minor, orphan or person of unsound mind, or estate of any deceased
person. 
6. To order and cause to be issued all writs which may be necessary to
the exercise of their jurisdiction.-Laws of 1891, p. 380, § 1. 
§ 1317. [846.] Records kept by clerk-Contents of. There shall be
kept in the office of the clerk of the superior court the following books of 
record of probate matters : 
1. A journal, in which shall be entered all orders, decrees and judg­
ments made by the court, or the judge thereof, and the minutes of the
court in probate proceedings. 
2. A record of wills, in which shall be recorded all wills admitted to
probate. 
3. A record of letters testamentary and of administration, in which all
letters testamentary and of administration shall be recorded. 
4. A record of bonds, in which all bonds and obligations required by
law to be approved by the court or judge in matters of probate shall
be recorded. 
5. A record of petitions, in which all petitions for orders of sale of real
estate shall be recorded. 
6. A record of claims, in which at least one page shall be given to each
estate, or case, wherein shall be entered, under the title of each estate or
case, in separate columns properly. ruled=-f r.) The names of claimants
against the estate; (2.) The date of filing proof of claim; (3.) The
amount claimed; (4.) The amount allowed; (5.) The date of allowance;
(6.) The nature of the claim; (7.) The amount paid; (8.) Number of
the voucher of each payment; (9.) The date of filing the voucher. 
7. A memorandum of the files, in which at least one page shall be given
to each estate or case, wherein shall be noted each paper filed in the case,
except proof of claims and vouchers noted in record of claims, and the
date of filing each paper. 
8. A record of marriages, in which certificates of all marriages solem­
niz~d in the county shall be recorded.-Laws of 1891, p. 381, § 2. 
§ 1318. [847.] Powers of judges at chambers. The judges of the
superior courts may, at chambers, appoint appraisers, receive inventories
and accounts, suspend the powers of executors, administrators or guar­ 
dians in the cases allowed by law, grant letters of administration or guar­
dianship, approve claims and bonds, and direct the issuance of all writs
and process necessary in the exercise of their powers.-Laws of 1891, p. 
94, § 15. 
MANNER OF BRINGING PERSONS INTO COURT.
i 1319. Citation of party by court. i 1321. Citation to be served ten days before 
i 1320. Service of citation and proof of. return day. 
§ 1319. [848.] Citation of party by court. Whenever personal no­
tice is required to be given to any party to a proceeding in matters of pro­
bate, and no other mode of giving notice is prescribed, it shall be given by 
citation issued from the court, signed by the clerk, and under the seal of
the court, directed to the sheriff of the proper county, requiring him to
cite such person to appear before the court or judge, as the case may be,
at a time and place to be named in such citation. In the body of the
citation shall be briefly stated the nature or character of the proceedings.
-Laws of 1891, p. 381, § 3. 
§ 1320. [849.] Service of citation and proof of. The officer to
whom the citation is directed, shall serve it by delivering a copy to the 
person or persons named therein, and shall return the original to the court
according to its direction, indorsing thereon the time and manner of ser­ 
vice.-Code of 1881, § 1312. 
CHAPTER CIX. . 
§ 1321. [850.] Citation to be served ten days before return day. 
In all cases in which citations are issued from the superior court in pro­
bate proceedings, they shall be served at least ten days before the term at 
which they are made returnable, except when issued from the court in
cases where the law requires the judge to issue them upon his own motion,
and be does so issue them; and in-such cases they shall be served in suffi­
cient time to allow the person served to be in attendance on the court. -­
Laws of 1891, p. 381, § 4. 
CHAPTER ex. 
VENUE OF PROCEEDINGS. 
I 1322. Where wills shall be proved and letters f 1324- Subsequent proceedings in same
granted. county. 
i 1323. Where granted in case of non-residents
with estate in more than one county. 
§ 1322. [851.] Where wills shall be proved and letters granted. 
Wills shall be proved and letters testamentary or of administration shall
be granted: 
1. In the county of which deceased was a resident or had his place of
abode at the time of his death. 
2. In the county in which be may have died, leaving estate therein, and
not being a resident of the territory. 
3. In the county in which any part of his estate may be, he having
died out of the territory, and not having been a resident thereof at the 
time of his death.-Code of 1881, § 1340.
Territory v. Klee, 23 P., 417; 1 W., 183. Hanford v. Davies, 25 P., 329; 1 W., 476. 
§ 1323. [8,i;2.] Where granted in case of non-residents with estate
in more .than one county. When the estate of the deceased is in more
than one county, he having died out of the territory and not having been
a resident thereof at the time of bis death, the probate court of that
county in which application is first made for letters testamentary or of ad­
ministration shall have exclusive jurisdiction . of the settlement of the 
estate.-Code of 1881, § 1341.
Territory v. Klee, 23 P., 417; I W., 183. 
§ 1324. (853.] Subsequent proceedings in same county. All orders,
settlements, trials and other proceedings in probate shall be had or made in 
the county in which letters testamentary or of administration were granted.
-Laws of 1891, p. 381, ~ S· 
§ 1325. (1458.*] Who may devise by will. Every person who shall
have attained the age of majority, of sound mind, may by last will devise 
all his or her estate, real and personal.-Code of 1881, § 1318. 
§ 1326. (1459.*] W~lls must be in writing-Two witnesses. Every
will shall be in writing, signed by the testator or testatrix, or by some
other person under bis or her direction in his presence, and shall be 
attested by two or more competent witnesses, subscribing their names to
• the will in the presence of the testator.-Code of 1881, § 1319. 
§ 1327. (1460.*] Person· signing for tes~tor must sign as witness. 
Every person who shall sign the testator's or testatrix's name to any will
by his or her direction shall subscribe his own name as a witness to such
will, and state that he subscribed the testator's name at his request.-Code 
of 1881, § 1320. 
§ 1328. [1461.*] Bow will may be revoked. No will in writing,
except in cases hereinafter mentioned, nor any part thereof, shall be re­ 
voked except by a subsequent will in writing, or by burning, cancelling,
tearing ox: obliter[at]ing the same, by the testator or testatrix, or in bis or 
her presence, or by his or her consent or direction.-Code of 1881, § 1321.
~ 1329. [1462.*] When marriage revokes will. If, after making any 
will, the testator shall marry and the wife shall be living at the time of
the death of the testator, such will shall be deemed revoked, unless pro­
vision shall have been made for her by marriage settlement, or unless she
be provided for in the will, or in such way mentioned therein as to show
an intention not to make such provision, and no other evidence to rebut
the presumption of revocation shall be received.-Code of 1881, § 1322. 
§ 1330. [1463.*] Bond to convey property does not revoke. A
bond, covenant or agreement made for a valuable consideration by a testator
to convey any property, devised or bequeathed in any last will previously 
made, shall not be deemed a revocation of such previous devise or bequest,
but such property shall pass by the devise or bequest, subject to the same
remedies on such bond, covenant or agreement, for specific performance or
otherwise, against devisees or legatees, as might be had by law against the
heirs of the testator or his next of kin, if the same bad descended to him. 
-Code of 1881, § 1323. 
§ 1331. (1464.*J Subsequent encumbrance does not revoke. A 
charge or encumbrance upon any real or personal estate for the purpose of
securing the payment of money, or the performance -of any covenant or
agreement, shall not be deemed a revocation of any will relating to he
same estate, previously executed. The devises and legacies therein con- 
tained shall pass and take effect, subject to such charge or encumbrance.­
Code of 1881, § 1324. 
§ 1332. [1465.*] Children not named shall inherit by descent. If
any person make his last will and die, leaving a child or children, or descend­
ants of such child or children, in case of their death, not named or pro­ 
vided for in such will, although born after the making of such will, or the
death of the testator, every such testator, so far as he shall regard such
child or children or their descendants, not provided for, shall be deemed
to die intestate, and such child or children or their descendants, shall be
entitled to such proportion of the estate of the testator, real and personal,
as if he had died intestate, and the same shall be assigned to them and all
the other heirs, devisees and legatees shall refund their proportional part. t­ 
Code ef 1881, § 1325.
§ 1333. [1466.*] Advancement prevents inheritance. If such 
child or children or their descendants, shall have an equal proportion of
the testator's estate bestowed on them in the testator's lifetime, by way of
advancement, they shall take nothing by virtue of the provisions of the
preceding sections.-Code of 1881, ~ 1326. • 
§ 1334. [1467.*] Heir of devisee takes devised estate. When any
estate shall be devised to any child, grandchild or other relative of the tes­
tator, and such devisee shall die before the testator, leaving lineal dscend­ 
ants, such descendants shall take the estate, real and personal, as such
devisee would have done in case he had survived the testator.-Code of 
1881, § 1327.
§ 1335. [1486.*] Destruction of second will does not revive first. 
If, after making any will, the testator shall duly make and execute a sec­
ond will, the destruction, canceling or revocation of such second will shall
not revive the first will unless it appears by the terms of such revocation
that it was his intention to revive and give effect to the first will, or unless
he shall duly republish his first will.-Code of 1881, § 1328. 
§ 1336. [1469.*] ,Nuncupative wills-Requisites of. No nuncupa­
tive will shall be good when the estate bequeathed exceeds the value of 
two hundred dollars, unless the same be proved by two witnesses, who
were present at the making thereof, and it be proven that the testator, at
the time of pronouncing the same, did bid some person present to bear
witness that such was his will, or to that effect, and such nuncupative will
was made at the time of the last sickness, and at the dwelling-house of
the deceased, or where he had been residing for the space of ten days or
more, except where such person was taken sick from home and died before
his return. Nothing herein contained shall prevent anymariner at sea, or
soldier in the military service from disposing of his wages or other per­ 
sonal property by nuncupative will.-Code of. 1881, § 1329. 
§ 1337. [1470.*] Nuncupative will must be proved within six
months. No proof shall be received of any nuncupative will, unless it be 
offered within six months after speaking the testamentary words, nor un­
less the words, or the substance thereof, be first committed to writing, and
a citation issued to the widow or next of kin of the· deceased, that they
may contest thewill if they think proper.-Code of 1881, § 1330. 
§ 1338. [1471.*] When devises to witnesses void. All beneficial
devises, legacies and gifts whatever, made or given in any will to a sub- 
scribing witness thereto, shall be void unless there are two other competent
witnesses to the same, but a mere charge on the estate of the testator for
the payment of debts shall not prevent his creditors from being competent
witnesses to his will. If such -witness, to whom any beneficial devise,
legacy or gift may have been made or given, would have been entitled to
any share in the testator's estate, in case the will is not established, then.
so much of the estate as would have descended or would have been dis­
tributed to such witness, shall be saved to him, as-will not exceed the value
of the devise or bequest made to him in the will ; and he may recover the
same from the devisees or legatees named in the will in proportion to and
out of the parts devised and bequeathed to him.-Code of 1881, § 1331. 
. § 1339. [1472.*] Devise conveys entire estate of devisor. Every
devise of land in any will shall be construed to convey all the estate of the 
devisor therein which he could lawfully devise, unless it shall clearly ap­
pear by the will that he intended to convey a less estate.-Code of 1881, 
§ 1332
§ 1340. [1473.*] Devise of life estate-Remainder to heirs of de­ 
visor. I_f any person, by last will, devise any real estate to any person for
the term of such person's life, such devise vests in the devisee an estate for
life, and without the remainder is specially devised to the heirs of said de­
visee, it shall revert to the heirs at law of the testator.-Code of 1881, 
§ 1333. 
§ 1341. [1474.*] Will conveys after acquired interest. Any estate,
rights or interest in lands acquired by the testator after the making of his 
or her will, shall pass thereby, and in like manner as if it passed at the
time of making the will, if such shall manifestly appear by the will to
have been the intention of the testator.-Code of 1881, § 1334. 
§ 1342. [1475.*] When devise taken in execution other devisees
must contribute. When any testator in his last will shall give any chat­ 
tel or real estate to any person, and the same shall be taken in execution
for the payment of the testator's debts, then all the other legatees, devisees,
and heirs, shall refund their proportional part of such loss to such person
from whom the bequest shall be taken.-Code of 1881, § 1335. 
§ 1343. [1476.*] Contribution may be enforced to make up loss. 
When any devisees, legatees, or heirs shall be required to refund any part
of the estate received by them. for the purpose of making up the share,
devise or legacy of any other devisee, legatee or heir, the probate court,
upon the petition of the person entitled to contribution or distribution of
such estate, may order the same to be made, and enforce such order.-Code 
of 1881, § 1336.
§ 1344. [1477.*] Definition ot' will. The term "will," as used in 
this act, shall be so construed as to include all codicils attached to any
will.-Code of 1881, § 1337. 
§ 1345. [1478.*] Direction of testator to be regarded. All courts
and others concerned in the execution of last wills, shall have due regard
to the direction of the will, and the true intent and meaning of the testator 
in all matters brought before them.-Code of 1881, § 1338.
~ 1346. [1479.*] Construction of words of gender and number. 
Words in this chapter contained, or in this act, which [impart] [import] 
the singular number only, may also be applied to the plural of persons and
things, and words [imparting] [importing] the masculine gender only. may
be extended to females also when such construction shall be necessary. - 
Code of 1881, § 1339. 
i 1347. Wills to be deposited with clerk of 
court. 
i 1348. When and to whom delivered by clerk. 
i 1349. Delivery of will by person having pos­ 
session-Penalty.
~ 1350. Executor must present will within 
thirty days. 
CHAPTER CXII. 
CUSTODY AND PROOF OF WILLS. 
t 1351. Executor to petition for probate or de­
cline. 
,e 1352. Liability of persons failing to comply
with the preceding sections, 
t 1353. Petition of executor for production and
probate of will. 
i 1354. Any person interested may petition. 
i 1355. Citation by court for production of
will. 
i 1363. All wills probated must be recorded. 
i 1364. When proved, recorded and certified 
t 1356. Application for probate and process to powers.
enforce production of will. ' i 1373. Losing party liable for costs. 
t 1357. Certificate of probate or rejection. i 1374- How lost or destroyed wills established.
~ 1358. Commission to take testimony of ab- i 1375. Decree establishing \oat will-Ldten 
sent witness. testamentary thereon. 
i 1359. Weight given to such testimony. I 1376. Executors of previous will may be re- 
i 136o. Evidence of handwriting of deceased, strained.
witnesses and testator. i 13n. Proof of foreign willa. 
i 1361. Proof when all witnesses are dead. I 1378. Provisions herein apply to fattign 
i 1362. Testimony must be written and signed. wills. 
may be given in evidence. 
i 1365. Copies as evidence. 
i 1366. If affecting real estate in different coun­
ties, must be filed. there within silt
months. 
i 1'367. Validity of probated will may be con­
tested within one year. 
i 1368. Citation to parties interested. 
i 1369. Proceedings conclusive except u to ab­
sent parties, etc. 
i 1370. Former testimony of witness may be
used on the trial. 
i 1371. When will shall be revoked. 
i 1372. Annulment terminates executor's 
§ 1347. Wills to be deposited with clerk of court. Any last will
and testament in writing, being enclosed in a sealed envelope or wrapper, 
and having indorsed thereon the name of the testator or testatrix, and bis
or her place of residence, and the day when and the person by whom it is
delivered, may be deposited by the person making the same, or by any
person making the same, or by any person for him, in the office of the
clerk of the superior court, in the county where the maker resides, and
such clerk of court shall receive and safely keep the same in a place to be
provided therefor and to be marked and designated as the '' Files of
Wills," and shall give a certificate of deposit thereof to the person so de­
positing the same, and said will shall be surrendered and redelivered to
the maker, or to such person as may be designated by the written order of 
the maker upon a surrender of such certificate.v+Zezes of 1893, p. 49, § I. 
§ 1348. When and to whom deliver,d by clerk. Such will when so 
deposited shall, during the life time of the testator or testatrix, be deliv­
ered only to himself or herself, or to some person by the maker authorized
by order in writing, duly signed, executed and acknowledged before a
notary public or other qualified officer in the same manner as .is required
by the laws of this state in the execution of instruments for the convey­
ance of real property, and upon the surrender of such certificate ; and
after the death of the maker said will shall be opened in public 'before
witnesses by the judge of said court and may be retained therein for pro­
bate if necessary.s=Zeees of 1893, p. 49, § 2. 
§ 1349. Delivery of will by person having possession-Penalty. 
Any person having the custody or control of any will, shall, within thirty
days after be shall have received knowledge of the death of the testator or
testatrix, deliver said will into the superior court which bas jurisdiction,
or to the person named in said will as executor ; and any person who shall
wilfully fail or neglect to deliver any such will in accordance with the
provisions of this section, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and
upon conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine not exceeding one
thousand dollars or by imprisonment in the county jail for a period not
exceeding six months or by both such fine 'and imprisonment.e=Zees oj 
1893, p. 49, § 3. 
NOTE: For penalty for destruction of will ( 9 4 of this act) see Penal Code. 
§ 1350. [855.] Executor must present will within thirty days. 
Any person named as executor in any will shall, within thirty days after
he has knowledge that he is executor, present the will, if in his posses­ 
sion, to the probate court which has Jurisdiction.-Code of 1881, § 1343. 
§ 1351. [856.] Executor to petition for probate or decline. An 
executor named in the will may decline to act by filing a written renunci­
ation at the time of filing said will ; but if he intends to accept, he shall
present with the will a petition praying that the will be admitted to pro­
bate and that letters testamentary be issued to him.-Code of 1881, § 1344. 
§ 1352. [857.] Liability of persons f&iling to comply with the pre­
ceding sections. Any person violating either of the next three preceding sections, without reasonable excuse, shall be liable to every person inter­ 
ested in the will for damages caused by such neglect.-Laws of 1891, p.
382, § 6. 
§ 1353. (858.] Petition of executor for production and probate of
will. Any person named as an executor in a will, not having the same 
in his possession, may petition the court-of proper jurisdiction for an order
to have the same produced, that it may be admitted to probate, and that
letters testamentary may be issued to him.-Code of 1881, § 1346. 
§ 1354. (859.] Any person interested may petition. Any person
having an interest in the will, may in like manner present a petition pray­
ing that it may be required to be produced and admitted to probate.-Code 
of 1881, § 1347. 
§ 1355. (860.] Citation by court for production of will. The said
court may compel by citation and attachment any person in whose posses­
sion any will may be, to produce it in court at such time as the court may 
order.-Code of 1881, § 1348. 
§ 1356. [861.] Applications ,for probate and process to enforce
production of will. Applications for the probate of a will, or for letters
testamentary, may be made to the judge of the probate court, in vacation,
and he may also at any time issue all necessary orders and process to en­ 
force the production of any will.-Code of 18811 § 1349. 
§ 1357. (862.] Certift.cate of probate or rejection. When any will
is exhibited to be proven, the court may immediately receive the proof and
grant a certificate of probate, or if such will be rejected, issue a certificate 
of rejection.-Code of 1881, § 1350.
§ 1358. (863.] Commission to take testimony of absent witness. 
If any witness be prevented by sickness from attending at the time when 
any will may be produced for probate, or reside out of the territory or more
than thirty miles from the place where the will is to be proven, such court
may issue a commission, annexed to such will, and directed to any judge,
justice of the peace or mayor, or other person, empowering him to take
and certify the attestation of such witness.-Code ef 1881, 1351. 
§ 1359. [864.] Weight given to such testimony. If such witness
appear before such officer and make oath or affirmation that the testator
signed the writing annexed to such commission as bis last will, or that
some other person signed it by bis direction and in his presence, that he 
was of sound mind, that the witness subscribed his name thereto in pres­
ence of the testator, the testimony so taken shall have the same force as if
taken before the court.-Code of 1881, § 1352. 
§ 136o. [865.] Evidence of handwriting of deceased witnesses
and testator. When one of the witnesses to such will shall be examined
and the other witnesses are dead, insane, or their residence unknown, then
such proof shall be taken of the handwriting of the testator, and of the
witnesses dead, insane, or residence unknown, and of such other circum­ 
stances as would be sufficient to prove such will.-Co.de of 1881, § 1353.
§ 1361. [866.] Proof when all witnesses are dead. If it shall ap­ 
pear to the satisfaction of the court, that all the subscribing witnesses are
dead, insane or their residence unknown, the court shall take. and receive
such proof of the handwriting of the testator and subscribing witnesses to
the will, and of such other facts and circumstances as would be sufficient
to prove such will.-Code ef 1881, § 1354. 
§ 1362. [867.] Testimony must be written and signed. All the tes­
timony adduced in support of the will shall be reduced to writing, signed
by the witnesses and certified by the judge of the probate court.-Code of 
1881, § 135.r;.
§ 1363. [868.] All wills probated must be recorded. All wills shall 
be recorded in a book kept for that purpose, within thirty days after pro­
bate, and the originals shall be carefully filed.-Code of 1881, § 1356. 
§ 1364. (869.] When proved, recorded, and certified, may be given 
in evidence.· Every will proved according to the provisions of this chap­ 
ter, recorded and certified by the judge of the probate court and attested
by the seal of said court, may be read as evidence without any further 
proof.-Code of 1881, § 1357.
§ 1365. [870.] Copies as evidence. The record of any will made, 
proved and recorded as aforesaid, and the exemplification of such record
by the clerk in whose custody the same may be, shall be received as evi­
dence, and shall be as effectual in all cases as the original would be if pro­
duced and proven.-Laws of 1891, p. 382, § 7., 
§ 1366. [871.] If affecting realestate in different counties, must 
be filed there within six months. In all cases where lands devised by
last will are situated in different counties, a copy of such will shall be re­ 
corded in the county auditor's office in each county within six months 
after probate.~Code ef 1881, § 1359.
§ 1367. [872.] Validity of probated will may be contested within 
one year. If any person interested in any will shall appear within one
year after the probate or rejection thereof, and by petition to the superior
court having jurisdiction contest the validity of said will, or pray to have 
the will proven which has been rejected, he shall file a petition containing
his objections and exceptions to said will, or to the rejection thereof. Is­
sues shall be made up, tried and determined in said court respecting the
competency of the deceased to make last will and testament, or respecting
the execution by the deceased of such last will and testament under re­
straint or undue influence or fraudulent representations, or for any other
cause affecting the validity of such will.-Laws of 1891, p. 382, § 8. 
§ 1368. [873.] Citation to parties interested. Upon the filing of the
petition referred to in the next preceding section a citation shall be issued 
to the executors who have taken upon them the execution of the will, or
to the administrators with the will annexed, and to all legatees named in
the will residing in the [territory] [state], or to their guardians if any of
them are minors, or their personal representatives if any of them are dead,
requiring them to appear before the court on a day therein specified, to
show cause why the petition should not be granted.-Laws of 1891, p. 
382, § 9. 
§ 1369. [874.] Proceedings conclusive except as to absent parties, 
etc. If no person shall appear within the time aforesaid, the probate or
rejection of such will shall be binding, save to infants, married women,
persons absent from the United States, or of unsound mind, a period of
one year after their respective disabilities are removed.-Code of 1881, 
§ 1362. 
§ 1370. [875.] Pormer testimony of witness may be used on the
trial. Jn all trials respecting the validity of a will, if any subscribing
witness be deceased or cannot be found, the oath of such witness, exam­ 
ined at the time of probate, may be admitted as evidence.-Code of 1881, 
§ 1363. 
§ 1371. [876.] When will shall be revoked. If, upon the trial of
said issue, it shall be decided that the will is for any reason invalid, or
that it is not sufficiently proved to have been the last will of the testator, 
the will and probate thereof shall be annulled and revoked.-Code of 1881, 
§ '1364. 
§ 1372. [877.] Annulment terminates executor's powers. Upon the
revocation being made, the powers of the executor or administrator with
the will annexed, shall cease, but such executor or administrator shall not 
be liable for any act done in good faith previous to service of written no­
tice of intention to contest said will.-Code of 1881, § 1365. 
§ 1373. [878.] Losing party liable for costs. The fees and expenses
shall be paid by the losing party. If the probate be revoked or the will
annulled, the party who shall have resisted such revocation shall pay the 
cost and expenses of proceedings out of the property of the deceased.­
Code of 1881, ~ 1366. 
§ 1374. [879.] Row lost or destroyed wills established. When­
ever any will be lost or destroyed, by accident or design, the probate court 
shall have power to take proof of the execution and validity of the will, and
to establish the same, notice to persons interested having first been given ;
such proof shall be reduced to writing and signed by the witnesses. But
no will shall be allowed to be proved as a lost or destroyed will, unless the
same shall be proved to have been in existence at the time of the death of
the testator, or be shown to have been fraudulently destroyed in the life­
time of the testator, nor unless its provisions shall be clearly and distinctly
proved by at least two credible witnesses.-Code of 1881, § 1367. 
§ 1375. (880.] Decree establishing lost will-Lett~rs testamen­ 
tary thereon. When any such will shall be established, the provisions
thereof shall be distinctly stated in the judgment establishing it, and a
copy of such decree shall be certified by the clerk under the seal of the
court ; and such copy, together with the testimony upon which the decree
is founded, shall be recorded as other wills are required to be recorded, and
letters testamentary or of administration, with the will annexed, shall be
issued thereon in the same manner as upon wills produced and duly 
proved. -Laws of 1891, p. 382, § 10. 
§ 1376. (881.] Executors of previous will may be restrained. If,
before or during the pendency of an application to prove a lost or destroyed 
will, letters of administration be granted on the estate of the testator, or
letters testamentary of any previous will of the testator be granted, the
court shall have authority to restrain the administrators or executors so 
appointed from any acts or proceedings which would be injurious to the
legatees or devisees claiming under the lost or destroyed will.-Code of 
1881, § 1369. 
§ 1377. (882.] Proof of foreign wills. Wills probated in any other
state or territory of the United States, or in any foreign country or state,
shall be admitted to probate in this territory on the production of a copy
of such will and of the original record of probate thereof, authenti­
cated by the attestation of the clerk of the court in which such probation
was made ; or if there be no clerk, QY the attestation of the judge there­
of, and by the seal of office of such officers, if they have a seal.-;-Code of 
1881' ~ 1370.
§ 1378. (883.] Provisions herein apply to foreign wills. All pro­ 
visions of law relating to the carrying into effect of domestic wills after
probate, shall, so far as applicable, apply to foreign wills admitted. to pro­
bate in this territory as contemplated in the preceding section.-Code of 
1881, § 1371. 
must account. 
§ 1379. [884.] Letters testamentary when and to whom granted. 
After the probate of any will, letters testamentary shall be granted to the
persons therein appointed executors. If a part of the persons thus ap­
pointed refuse to act, or be disqualified, the letters shall be granted to the
other persons appointed therein. If all such persons refuse to act, letters
of administration with the will annexed, shall be granted to the person to
whom administration would have been granted if there bad been no will. 
-Code of 1881, § 1372. 
Dunn v. Peterson, 29 P., 998; 4 W., 170. 
§ 1380. [885.] Objections to executor, how made. Any person in­
terested in a will may file objections in writing to the granting of letters
testamentary, to the persons named as executors, or any of them, and the
objection shall be heard and determined by the court.-Code of 1881, § 1373. 
§ 1381. [886.] Letters, how granted if executor absent, or a minor. 
If the executor be a minor, or absent from the territory, letters of admin­
istration with the will annexed shall be granted during the time of such
minority or absence, to some other person, unless there be another execu­
tor, who shall accept the trust, in which case the estate shall be admin­
istered by such other executor, until the disqualification shall be removed,
when such minor, having arrived at full age, or such absentee shall be ad­
mitted as joint executor with the former.-Code oj 1881, § 1374. 
§ 1382. [887.] Discovery of will revokes previous letters. If, after
letters of administration are granted, a will of the deceased be found, and
probate thereof be granted, the letters shall be revoked and letters testa­
mentary or of administration with will annexed, shall be granted.-Code 
of I 8811 § 1375· •
§ 1383. [888.] Letters revoked if will is set aside. If, after a will 
has been found and letters thereon granted, the will shall afterwards be
set aside, the letters shall be revoked, and letters of administration granted
on the goods unadministered.-Code of 18811 § 1376. 
§ 1384. [889.] Marriage of executrix extinguishes her powers. 
If any executrix or administratrix marry, her husband shall not thereby
acquire any interest in the effects of her testator or intestate, nor shall the
administration thereby devolve on him, but the marriage shall extinguish
her powers and the letters be revoked.-Code of 1881, § 1377. 
§ 1385. [8go.] Letters revoked when executor becomes disqual­
ified. If an executor or administrator become of unsound mind, or be
convicted of felony or infamous crime, or become an habitual drunkard,
or otherwise incapable of or unsuitable for executing the trust reposed in 
him, or so fail to discharge his official duties, or waste or mismanage the
estate, or so act as to endanger any co-executor or co-administrator, the
probate court upon complaint in writing made by any person interested,
supported by affidavit, and due notice given to the person complained of,
shall hear the complaint, and if found to be just, shall revoke the letters
granted.-Code of 1881, § 1378. 
§ 1386. [891.] Executor of executor shall not administer former
estate. No executor of an executor, shall, as such, be authorized to ad­ 
minister upon the estate of the first testator, but on the death of the sole
or surviving executor of any last will, letters of administration with the
will annexed, of the estate of the first testator left unadministered, shall 
be issued.-Code of 1881, § 1379. 
§ 1387. [892.] Executors appointed have power to act though
others are named in will. When all the executors named shall not be
appointed by the court, such as are appointed shall have the same author­ 
ity to perform every act, and discharge every trust required by the will,
and their acts shall be as effectual for every purpose as if all were ap­
pointed and should act together.-Code of 1881, § 1380. 
§ 1388. [893.J Power of administrators with will annexed. Ad­
ministrators with the will annexed shall have the same authority as the
executor named in the will would have had, and their acts shall be as 
effectual for every purpose. -Code of 1881, § 1381. 
§ 1389. [894.] Letters with will annexed signed and under seal. 
Letters testamentary and of administration with the will annexed shall be
signed by the clerk of the probate, and be under the seal of the court, and
a copy of the will shall be attached to the letters.-Code of 1881, § 1382. 
§ 1390. [895.] Affidavit required as to knowledge of other will. 
Every administrator with the will annexed, and executor, at the time let­
ters are granted him, shall make an affidavit that he knows of no other 
and subsequent will of deceased.-Code of 1881, § 1383. 
§ 1391. [896.] Record and certificate of letters before delivery. 
The clerk shall record, in a well bound book kept for that purpose all let­
ters testamentary and of administration, before they are delivered to the
executors or administrators, and shall certify on such letters that they
have been recorded.-Laws of 1891, p. 383, § 11. 
§ 1392. [897.] Certitled copies admissible as evidence. Copies of
such letters, or copies of the records thereof, certified by the clerk, and 
under the seal of the superior court, shall be received as evidence in any
court in this state.-Laws of 1891, p. 383, § 12. 
§ 1393. [898.] :rorm of letters testamentary. Letters testamentary
to be issued to executors under the provisions of this act, may be in the
following form : 
United States of America, }
Territory of Washington. 
In the probate court of the county of .
Whereas, the last will of A B, deceased, was on the ----------- day of 
____________ , A. D~, , duly exhibited, proven and recorded in our said
probate court, a copy of which is hereto annexed; and whereas it appears 
in and by said will, that C D is appointed executor thereon, now therefore,
know all men by these presents, that we do hereby authorize the said C 
D to execute said will according to law.
Witness my hand and the seal of said court this-----------· day of , 
A. D., 18 .-Code of 1881, § 1386. 
§ 1394. [899.] :rorm of letters of administration with will an­
nexed. Letters of administration with the will annexed, may be sub­ 
stantially in the following form :
United States of America, } 
Territory of Washington.
In the probate court of the county of.·---------·· 
The last will of A B, deceased, a copy of which is hereunto annexed,
having been proved and recorded in the said probate court, and , 
(as the case may be) , C Dis hereby appointed administrator with
the will annexed. 
Witness my hand and the seal of said court this·----------· day of , 
A. D., 18 .-Code of 1881, § 1387. 
§ 1395. (900.] Who are entitled to letters of administration. Ad­
ministration of the estate of a person dying intestate, shall be granted to 
some one or more of the persons hereinafter mentioned, and they shall be
respectively entitled in the following order : 
1. The surviving husband, or wife, or such person as he or she may re­
quest to have appointed. 
2. The next of kin in the following order: 1. Child or children; 2. 
Father or mother ; 3. Brothers or sisters ; 4. Grandchildren.
3. To one or more of the principal creditors : Provided, That if the per­ 
sons so entitled or interested shall neglect for more than forty days after
the death of the intestate to present a petition for letters of administration,
or if there be no relatives or next of kin, or if the heirs or one or more of
the principal creditors, in writing, waive their right to administration, or
if there be no principal creditor or creditors, then the probate court or
judge may appoint any suitable and competent person to administer such 
estate.~Code of 1881, § 1388. 
§ 1396. (901.] Application tor letters, how made. Application for
letters of administration shall be made by petition in writing, signed by 
the applicant or his attorney, and filed in the probate court, which petition
shall set forth the facts essential to giving the court jurisdiction of the
case, and such applicant, at the time of making such application, shall
make an affidavit stating, to the best of his knowledge and belief, the
names and places of residence of the heirs of the deceased, and that the
deceased died without a will.-Code of 1881, § 1389. 
§ 1397. (902.] Application in case of administration de bonis non. 
A similar affidavit, with such variations as the case may require, shall be 
made by administrators of the goods remaining unadministered, and by
administrators during the time of a contest about a will, or the granting 
of letters of administration.-Code of 1881, § 1390. 
§ 1398. [903.] Notice of application for letters of administration. 
When a petition praying for letters of administration is filed, the clerk
must give notice thereof, hy causing notices to be posted in at least three
public places in the county, one of which must be at the place where the
court is held, containing the name of the decedent, the name of the appli­
cant and the time at which the applicant will be heard. Such notice
must be given at least ten days-before the hearing.-Laws of 1883, p. 29·, 
§ I. 
§ 1399. [904.] l'orm of letters of administration. Letters of ad­
ministration shall be signed by the clerk, and be under the seal of the 
court, and may be substantially in the following form :
United States of America, } 
Territory of Washington.
Whereas, AB, late of , on or about the day of 
A. D., , died intestate, leaving at the time of his death, property
in this territory subject to administration. Now, therefore, know all men 
by these presents, that we do hereby appoint administrator upon
said estate, and hereby authorize him to administer the same according to
law. 
Witness my hand and the seal of this court this day of ,
A. D., 18 .-Code of 1881, § 1392. . 
~ 1400. [905.] Oath of executors and administrators. Before let­
ters testamentary or of administration are issued to the executor or admin­
istrator he must take and subscribe to an oath before some person author­ 
ized to administer oaths, that he will perform according to law, the duties
of his trust as executor or administrator, which oath must be attached to
and recorded with the letters.-Code of 1881, § 1393. 
§ 1401. [go6.] Bond required before receiving letters-Porm and 
amount of. Every person to whom letters testamentary or of administra­ 
tion are directed to issue must before receiving them, execute a bond to
the territory of Washington with two or more sufficient sureties to be ap­
proved by the judge. In form the bond must be joint and several, and
the penalty must not be less than twice the value of the personal prop­
erty, and twice the probable value of the annual rents, profits and issues
of the real property belonging to the estate ; which values must be ascer­
tained by the probate judge by examining on oath . the party applying,
and any Other persons.-Code of 1881, § 1394. 
§ 1402. [907.] Conditions of bond. The bond must be conditioned
that the executor or administrator shall faithfully execute the duties of
the trust according to law.-Code of 1881, § 1396. 
§ 1403. [908.] When additional bond required on sale of prop­
erty. The probate judge must require an additional bond, whenever the
sale of any real estate belonging to an estate is ordered by him; but no 
such additional bond must be required when it satisfactorily appears to
the court, that the penalty of the bond given, before receiving letters, or
of any bond given in place thereof, is equal to twice the value of the per­
sonal property remaining in or that may come into the possession of the
executor or administrator, including the annual rents, profits and issues of 
0
, 
real est.ate and twice the probable amount to be realized on the sale of the
real estate ordered to be sold.-Code of 1881, § 1395. 
§ 1404. [909.] Each executor and administrator must give bond. 
When two or more persons are appointed executors or administrators, the
probate judge must require and take a separate bond from each of them. 
-Code of 1881, § 1397. 
§ 1405. [910.] Successive recoveries until bond is exhausted. The
bond shall not be void upon the first recovery, but may be sued and
recovered upon, from time to time, by any person aggrieved in his own 
name, until the whole penalty is exhausted.-Code of 1881, § 1398. 
§ 14o6. [911.] Qualitlcations of sureties. In all cases where bonds
or undertakings are required to be given under this title the sureties must
possess the qualifications and justify thereon in the same manner as re- 
. quired for bail upon an arrest, and the certificate thereof must be attached
to and filed and recorded with the bond or undertaking. All such bonds
or undertakings must be approved by the judge before being filed or re­
corded.-Laws of 1891, p. 383, § 13. 
NoTa: As to release of sureties, see Laws of 1889-9<>, p. 43, § 2. Vol. I., H. C., 
4 29n. 
§ 1407. [912.] Bow sureties shall justify-Additional bond may
be required. Before the probate judge approves any bond required un­
der this title, and after its approval, he may of bis own motion, or upon 
the motion of any person interested in the estate, supported by affidavit
that the sureties, or some one or more of them are not worth as much as 
they have justified to, order a citation to issue, requiring such sureties to
appear before him at a designated time and place, to be examined touch­
ing their property and its value; and the judge must, at the same time,
cause notice to be issued to the executor or administrator, requiring his
appearance on the return of the citation, and on its return be may exam­
ine the sureties and such witnesses as may be produced touching the prop­
erty of the sureties and its value; and if upon such examination he is
satisfied that the bond is insufficient be must require sufficient additional
security.-Code of 1881, § 1400. 
§ 1408. [913.] Giving of new bond discharges suteties ot" former
bond. Such additional bond when given and approved shall discharge the
former sureties from any liability arising from the misconduct of the prin­ 
cipal after the filing of the same, and such former sureties shall only be
liable for such misconduct as happened prior to the giving of such new 
bond.-Code of 1881, § 1401. 
§ 1409. [914.] Executor's power ceases on failure to give bond. 
If sufficient security is not given within the time fixed by the judge's
order the right of such executor or administrator to the administration
shall cease, and the person next entitled to the administration on the estate,
who shall execute a sufficient bond must be appointed to the administra­ 
tion. -Code of 1881, § 1402. 
§ 1410. [915.] If will so provides, bond need not be given. When
it is expressly provided in the will that no bond shall be required of the
executor, letters testamentary may issue and sale of real estate be made 
and confirmed without any bond, unless the court for good cause require
one to be executed, but the executor may at any time afterwards, -if it 
appear from any cause necessary or proper, be required. to file a bond, as
in other cases.-Code of 1881, § 1403. 
, §\ 1411. [916.] Additional security when sureties insolvent, etc. 
Any person interested in an estate may, by verified petition represent to
. the probate judge that the sureties of the executor or administrator thereof 
'have become or are becoming insolvent, or that they have removed, or are
iabout to remove from the territory, or from any other cause the bond is 
1insufficient,
and ask that further security be required..-Laws of 1891, p. 
383, § 13~. 
§ 1412. [917.] Citation to executor for additional security. If
the probate judge is satisfied that the matter requires investigation citation 
must be issued to the executor or administrator requinng him to appear,
at a time and place specified, to show cause why he should not give further
security. The citation must be served personally upon the administrator
or executor, at least; five days before the return day. If he has absconded,
or cannot be found, it may be served by leaving a copy of it at his last
place of residence, or by such publication as the court or judge may order. 
Code of 1881, § 1405. 
§ 1413. [918.] Rearing and order on return of citation. On the
return of the citation, or at such other time as the judge may appoint, he
must proceed to hear the proof and allegations of the parties. If it satis­
factorily appears that the security is from any cause insufficient, be may 
make an order requiring the executor or administrator to give further
security, or to file a new bond in the usual form, within a reasonable time,
not less than five days.-Code of 1881, § 1406. 
§ 1414. [919.] Letters to be revoked on failure to comply with
order. If the executor or administrator neglects to comply with the order 
within the time prescribed., the judge must by order revoke his letters, and
his authority must thereupon cease.-Code of 1881, § 1407. 
§ 1415. [920.] Order for further security on court's own motion. 
When it comes to his knowledge that the bond of any executor or admin­
istrator is, from any cause insufficient, the probate judge, without any ap­
plication, must cause him to be called to appear and show cause, why he
should not give further security and must proceed thereon as upon the ap- ·
plication of any person interested..-Code of 1881, § 1408. 
§ 1416. [921.] Who not to be sureties. No judge of the superior
court, no sheriff, clerk of a court, or deputy of either, and no attorney at 
law, shall be taken as surety in any bond required to be taken in any pro­
ceeding in probate.-Laws of 1891, p. 383, § 14. 
§ 1417. [922.] Judge to exercise special care as to sureties. The
judge shall take special care to take as sureties, men who are solvent and 
sufficient, and who are not bound in too many other bonds ; and to satisfy
himself, he may take testimony, and examine, on oath, the applicant or
person offered as surety.·-Laws of 1891, p. 384, § 15. 
§ 1418. [923.] Bonds recorded and original preserved. The clerk
shall record, in a well bound book kept for that purpose; all bonds given 
by executors and administrators, and preserve the originals in regular file.
-Laws of 1891, p. 384, § 16. 
§ 1419. [924.] Defective bond not void. No bond required. under the
provisions of this act, and intended. as such bond, shall be void for want 
of form or substance, recital, or condition ; nor shall the principal ur surety
on such account be discharged, but all the parties thereto shall be held
and bound to the full extent contemplated by the law requiring the same,
to the amount specified in such bond. In all actions on such defective
bond, the plaintiff may state its legal effect, in the same manner as though 
it were a perfect bond.-Code of 1881, § 1412. 
§ 1420. [925.] Acts in court or chambers equally valid-Orders to 
be entered in minutes. The applications and acts authorized by tl~
foregoing sections of this chapter may be heard and determined in court 
or at chambers. All orders made therein must be entered upon the min­
utes of the court.-Laws of 1891, p. 384, § 17. 
§ 1421. [926.] When executor may be suspended. Whenever the
probate judge has reason to believe from his own knowledge, or from 
credible information, that any executor or administrator has wasted, em­
bezzled or mismanaged, or is about to waste or embezzle the property of
the estate committed to his charge or has committed, or is about to com­
mit a fraud upon the estate, or is incompetent to act, or has permanently
removed from the territory, or has wrongfully neglected the estate, or has
long neglected to perform any acts as such executor or administrator, he
must by order entered upon the minutes of the court suspend the powers
of such executor or administrator, until the matter is investigated.-Code 
of 1881, § 1414. 
§ 1422. [927.] Notice of suspension-Citation-Hearing. When
such suspension is made, notice thereof must be given to the executor or
administrator, and he must be cited to appear and show cause why his 
letters should not be revoked. If he fail to appear in obedience to the
citation, or if appearing the court is satisfied that there exists cause for
his removal, his letters must' be revoked, and letters of administration
granted anew, as the case may require.-Laws of 1891, p. 384, § 18. 
Moore's Estate, 24 P., 846.
~ 1423. [928.] Interested person may file allegations. At the hear­ 
ing, any person interested in the estate may appear and file his allegations
in writing, showing that the executor or administrator should be removed, 
. to which the executor or administrator may demur or answer.-Code of 
1881, § 1416. . 
§ 1424. [929.] Notice by publication when executor absconds, etc. 
If the executor or administrator has absconded or conceals himself, or has
removed or absented himself from the territory, notice may be given him
of the pendency of the proceedings by publication, in such manner as the
court may direct, and the court may proceed upon such notice, as if the 
citation had been personally served.-Code of 1881, § 1417. 
§ 1425. [930.] Court may compel executor to attend and answer. 
In the proceedings authorized by the preceding section for the removal of
an executor or administrator, the court may compel his attendance by at­
tachment, and may compel him to answer questions, on oath, _trmching
his administration, and upon his refusal so to do, may commit him to jail,
until he obey, or may revoke his letters, or both.-Code of 1881, § 1418. 
§ 1426. [931.] When special administrator may be appointed. 
When, by reason of an action concerning the proof of a will, or from any
other cause, there shall be a delay in granting letters testamentary or of
administration, the judge may, in his discretion, appoint a special admin- 
istrator ( other than one of the parties) to collect and preserve the effects
of the deceased ; and in case of an appeal from the decree appointing such
special administrator, he shall, nevertheless. proceed in the execution of
his trust until he shall be otherwise ordered by the appellatecourt.-Laws 
of 1891, p. 384, § 19. 
Moore's Estate, 24 P., 846.
§ 1427. [932.] Bond of Same. Every such administrator shall, before 
entering on the duties of his trust, give bond with sufficient surety or
sureties, in such sum as the judge of the probate court shall order, pay­
able to the territory of Washington, with condition as required of an ex­
ecutor, or in other cases of administration, to make and return into the
probate court as soon as practicable, a true inventory of the goods, chat­
tels, rights and credits of the deceased, which have or shall come into his
possession or knowledge; and that he will truly account for all the goods,
chattels, debts and effects of the deceased that shall be received bv him as
special administrator, whenever required by the probate court, and will de­
liver the same to the person who shall be appointed executor or admin­
istrator of the deceased, or to such other person as shall be lawfully author­
ized to receive the same.-Code of 1881, § 1420. 
§ 1428. [933.] Duties of Same. Such special administrator shall col­
lect all the goods, chattels and debts of the deceased and preserve the same
for the executor or administrator who shall thereafter be appointed ; and 
for that purpose may commence and maintain suits as an administrator,
and may also sell such perishable and other goods as the probate court
shall order sold, and he shall be allowed such compensation for his service
as the said court shall deem reasonable.-Code of 1881, § 1421. 
§ 1429. [934.] Powers of special administrator shall cease when
letters testamentary granted. Upon granting letters testamentary or
of administration, the power of the special administrator shall cease, and 
he shall forthwith deliver to the executor or administrator all the goods,
chattels, money and effects of the deceased in his hands, and the executor
or administrator may be admitted to prosecute any suit commenced by the
special administrator, in like manner as an administrator de bonis non is
authorized to prosecute a suit commenced by a former executor or admin­ 
istrator.-Code of. 1881, § 1422. 
§ 1430. {935.] Not liable to creditors-Limitation to run from
granting of letters testamentary. Such special administrator shall not
be liable to an action by any creditor of the deceased, and the time for
limitation of all suits against the estate shall begin to run from the time of 
granting letters testamentary or of administration in the usual form, in
like manner as if such special administration had not been granted.-Code 
of 1881, § 1423. 
§ 1431. [936.] Must render account same as other administrators. 
The special administrator shall also render an account under oath of his
proceedings, in like manner as other administrators are required to do.­ 
Code of 1881, 1424: 
§ 1432. [937.] Resignation of executor-Settlement of account. 
If any executor or administrator, having first settled his .accounts, shall
publish for six weeks in some newspaper in this territory in general circu­
lation in the county wherein his letters were granted, a notice of his inten­
tion to apply to the probate court to resign his letters, and the court on 
proof of such publication believe that he should be permitted to resign, it
shall so order.-Code of 1881, § 1425. 
§ 1433. (938.] Surrender of letters. Such person shall then sur­
render his letters, his power from that time shall cease, and he shall pay 
the expense of publication and of all the proceedings on such application.
-Code of 1881, § 1426. 
§ 1434. [939.] Remaining executors to act when part resign. If
there be more than one executor or administrator of an estate, and the let­ 
ters to part of them be revoked or surrendered, or a part die or in any
[wa;1] become disqualified, those who remain shall perform all the duties
required by law.-~-Code of 1881, § 1427. 
§ 1435. (940.] In case of death, etc., next person entitled takes
appointment. If the executor or administrator of an estate shall die, 
resign, or the letters be revoked before the settlement of the estate, letters
of administration of the goods remaining unadministered, shall be granted
to those to whom administration would have been granted if the original
letters had not been obtained, or the person obtaining them had renounced
administration, and the administrator de bonis non shall perform the like
duties and incur the like liabilities as the former executors or administra­
tors.-Code of 1881, * 1428. 
§ 1436. [941.] Representatives of deceased executor must ac­
count. If any executor or administrator resign or his letters be revoked, 
or he die, he or his representatives shall account for, pay and deliver to
his successor or to the surviving or remaining executor or administrator,
all money and property of every kind, and all rights, credits, deeds, evi­
dences of debt and papers of every kind of the deceased, at such time and
in such manner as the court shall order, on final settlement with such ex­
ecutor or administrator or his legal representatives.-Code of 1881, ~ 1429. 
§ 1437.(942.] Succeeding administrator may have action for pos­
session of estate. The succeeding administrator, or remaining executor 
or administrator, may proceed by law against any delinquent former ex­
ecutor or administrator, or his personal representatives, or the sureties
of either, or against any other person possessed of any part of the
estate.-Laws of 1891, p. 384, § 20. 
§ 1438. (943.] Action against sureties to be commenced within six
yea.rs. All actions against sureties shall be commenced within six years 
after the revocation or surrender of letters of administration or death of
the principal.-Laws of 1891, p. 385, ~ 21. Code of 1881, § 1431. 
§ 1439. (944.] Administrator may be compelled to settle accounts. 
If any executor or administrator fail to make either annual or final settle­
ment as required by law, and do not show good cause for such failure, after
having been cited for that purpose, the probate court shall order such ex­
ecutor or administrator to make such settlement and may enforce obedience
to such order by attachment, and may revoke his letters.-Code of 1881, 
§ 1432.
~ 1440. [945.] Attachment for failure. If any person who has sur­ 
rendered his letters testamentary or of administration, or whose letters
have been revoked, or the legal representatives of any deceased executor or
administrator shall fail to make final settlement as required by law, after
being cited for that purpose by the probate court it shall order such delin- 
quent to make such settlement, and may enforce obedience to such order
by attachment.-Code of 1881, § 1433. 
§ 1441. [946.J Costs upon such attachment. In all cases where cita­
tions or attachments may be issued against any executor, administrator or
other person for failing to settle his accounts, such delinquent shall pay 
all costs incurred thereby, the collection of which costs may be enforced
by attachment.-Code ef 1881, § 1434. 
§ 1442. [947.J Separate inventory of partnership property. The
executor or administrator of a deceased person who was a member of a co­
partnership, shall include in the inventory of such person's estate, in a
separate schedule, the whole of the property of such partnership ; and the 
appraisers shall estimate the value thereof, and also the value of such per­
son's individual interest in the partnership property, after the payment or
satisfaction of all the debts and liabilities of the partnership.-Code of 
1881, § 1435. 
Reese v. Murnan. 31 P., 1027. 
§ 1443. [948.] Administration of partnership property. After the
inventory is taken, the partnership property shall be in the custody and
control of the executor or administrator for the purposes of administration,
unless the surviving partner shall within five days from the filing of the 
inventory, or such further time as the court may allow, apply for the ad­
ministration thereof, and give the bond therefor hereinafter prescribed.­ 
Code ef 1881, § 1436. 
§ 1444. [949.J Surviving partner entitled to letters. If the sur­
viving partner apply therefor, as provided in the last section, he is entitled 
to the administration of the partnership estate, if he have the qualifications
and competency required for a general administrator. He is denominated
an administrator of the partnership, and his powers and duties extend to
the settlement of the partnership business generally, and the payment or
transfer-of the interest of the deceased in the partnership property remain­
ing after the payment or satisfaction of the debts and liabilities of tbe
partnership, to the executor or general administrator within six months
from the date of his appointment, or such further time, if necessary, as the
court may allow. In the exercise of his powers and the performance of
his duties, the administrator of the partnership is subject to the same lim­
itations and liabilities, and control and jurisdiction of the court as a gen­ 
eral administrator.-Code of 1881, § 1437. 
§ 1445. [950.] Bond of administrator of partnership property. 
The bond of the administrator of the partnership shall be in a sum not
less than double the value of the partnership property, and shall be given
in the same manner and be of the same effect as the bond of a general ad­ 
ministrator. - Code of 1881, § 1438. 
§ 1446. [951.] General administrator to act when surviving part­
ner does not-Additional bond. In case the surviving partner is not
appointed administrator of the partnership, the administration thereof de­
volves upon the executor or general administrator, but before entering 
upon the duties of such administration, he shall give an additional bond
in double the value of the partnership property.-Code ef 1881, § 1439. 
§ 1447. [952.J Surviving partner to give information and surren­
der all property. Every surviving partner, on the demand of an exec­ 
utor or administrator of a deceased partner, shall exhibit and give infor- 
mation concerning the property of the partnership at the time of the death
of the deceased partner, so that the same may be correctly inventoried and
appraised; and in case the administration thereof shall devolve upon the
executor or administrator, such survivor shall deliver or transfer to him on
demand, all the property of the partnership, including all books, papers
and documents pertaining to the same, and shall afford him all reasonable
information and facilities for the performance of the duties of his trust.­ 
Code of 1881, § 1440. 
§ 1448. (953.] Citation to surviving partner when he refuses. 
Any surviving partner who shall refuse or neglect to comply with the re­
quirements of the last section, may be cited to appear before the court and
unless he show cause to the contrary, the court shall require him to com­
ply with such section in the particular complained of.-Code of 1881. 
§ 1441. 
§ 1449. [954.] Persons disqualified to act as administrators. The
following persons are not qualified to act as executors or administrators: 
Non-residents of this territory, minors, judicial officers other than justices
of the peace, persons of unsound mind or who have been convicted of any
felony or of a misdemeanor involving moral turpitude, or a married
woman. And when any person to whom letters testamentary or of ad­
ministration have been issued, becomes disqualified to act because of leav­
ing the territory, becoming of unsound mind, or is convicted of any crime
or misdemeanor involving moral turpitude, or [ of] [if] a woman and she
ceases to be single, the probate court having jurisdiction shall revoke his
or her letters as in this act provided.-Code of 1881, § 1442. 
Barlow v. Coggan, I W. T., 257. 
§ 1450. [955.] When will so provides, administration unnecessary. 
In all cases where it is provided in the last will and testament of the de­
ceased, that the estate shall be settled in a manner provided in such last
will and testament, and that letters testamentary or of administration shall
not be required, it shall not be necessary to take out letters testamentary
or of administration, except to admit to probate such will in the manner
required by existing laws, and after the probate of such will, all such es­
tates may be managed and settled without the intervention of the probate
court, if the said last will and testament so provides: Provided, however,
In all such cases, if the party named in such will as executor shall decline
to execute the trust, or shall [du] or be otherwise disabled from any cause
from acting as such executor, then letters testamentary or of· administra­
tion shall issue as in other cases : And provided, f 'urther, If the party
named in the will shall fail to execute the trust faithfully and to take care
and promote the interests of all parties taking under the will, then upon
petition of any creditor of such estate, or of any of the heirs, or of any
person on behalf of any minor heirs, it shall be the duty of the probate
court of the county wherein such estate is situated, to cite such person
having the management of such estate to appear before such court, and if,
upon hearing of such petition, it shall appear that the trust in such will is
not faithfully discharged, and that the parties interested or any of them
have been or are about to be damaged by such acts or doings of the exec­
utor, then letters testamentary or of administration shall be had and re­
quired in such cases, and all other matters and proceedings shall be had
and required as are now required in the administration of estates, and in
such cases, the costs of the citation and hearing shall be charged against 
the party failing and neglecting to execute the trust as required in such
will.-Code of 1881, § 1443. 
Newport v. Newport, 31 P., 428. 
INVENTORY AND EFFECTS OF DECEASED PERSONS. 
~ 1451. Executor to have possession of all prop­
erty. 
i 1452. Inventory to be made within one
month after appointment. i 1461. 
e 1453. Appointment of appraiaers-Compen- . i! 1462.
sation. i! 1463. 
e 1454. Oath and duty of apprai.ers-Contents
of inventory. 
i! 1455, Inventory must show money belong­
ing to estate. 
f 1456. Executor is not relieved from liability
to the estate, 
i 1457. Discharge of debt in will void as 
against creditors.
~ 1458. Appraisers to sign Inventory and ex- 
ecutor to verify. 
CHAPTER CXIV. 
Liability for failure to return inventory.
Additional inventory to be made on
discovery of unscheduled property.
Disposition of personal estate.
Penalty for embezzling property.
Party charged with embezzlement to 
be cited before court-Costs.
Party refusing to appear may be im­
prlsoned.
Same if person refuses to answer cita­
tion. 
Proceedings when estate doea not ex­ 
ceed one thousand dollars. 
§ 145 r , [9-56.] Executor to have possession of all property. 
Every executor or administrator shall, after having qualified, by giving
bond as hereinbefore provided, have a right to the immediate possession
of all the real as well as personal estate of the deceased, and may receive
the rents and profits of the real estate until the estate shall be settled or
delivered over, by order of the probate court, to the heirs or devisees,
and shall keep in tenantable repair all houses, buildings and fixtures there­
on, which are under his control.-Code of 1881, § 1444. 
Dunn v. Peterson, 29 P., ggS; 4 W., 170. Balch v. Smith, 30 P., 64,8; 4 W., 497.
Hanford v. Davies, 25 P., 329; x W., 426. Ward v. Moorcy, 1 W. T., 104.
Burch v. McDaniel, 2 W. T., 58; 3 P., 586. Page v. Tucker, 54 Cal., 121.
See § [1041]. 
§ 1452. [957.J Inventory to be made within one month after ap­ 
pointment. Every executor and administrator shall make and return,
upon oath, into the probate court, within one month after his appointment,
a true inventory of the real and personal estate of the deceased, which
shall come to his possession or knowledge.-Code of 1881, § 1445. 
§ 1453. [958.J Appointment of appraisers-Compensation. The
estates and effects comprised in the inventory shall be appraised by three 
suitable disinterested persons, who shall be appointed by the probate
court. If any part of the estate shall be in another county than that in
which letters are issued, appraisers residing in such county may be ap­
pointed by the probate court having jurisdiction of the case, or if most
advisable the same appraisers may act. Such appraisers shall receive as
compensation for their services three dollars per day, to be paid out of the
estate, and when they have to go out of their county, mileage shall be
allowed ; provided, that where it appears to the satisfaction of the court,
from the return of the inventory or other proof, that the whole estate con­
sists of personal property of less value than one hundred dollars, exclu­
sive of moneys, drafts, checks, bonds or other securities of fixed valuation, 
an appraisement may be dispensed with, in the discretion of the court.­
Laws of 1887-8, p. 186, § 1. 
§ 1454. (959.] Oath and duties of appraisers-Contents of inven­
tory. Before proceeding to the discharge of their duties, the appraisers 
shall take and subscribe an oath before any officer authorized to adminis­
ter oaths, to be attached to the inventory, that they will honestly and im­
partially appraise the property which shall be exhibited to them, accord­
ing to the best of their knowledge and ability ; they shall proceed to esti­
mate and appraise the property, and set down each article separately, with
the value thereof in dollars and cents, in figures opposite the respective articles. The inventory shall contain all the estate of the deceased, real
and personal, a statement of all debts, partnership and other interests,
bonds, mortgages, notes, and other securities for the payment of money
belonging to the deceased, specifying the name of the debtor in each
security, the date, the sum originally payable, the indorsements thereon,
if any, and their dates, and the sum which, in the judgment of the ap­
praisers, may be collectible on each debt, interest or security.-Code of 
1881, § 1447. 
§ 1455. (96o.] Inventory must show money belonging to estate. 
The inventory shall also contain an account of all moneys belonging to
the deceased, which shall have come to the possession or knowledge of the
executor or administrator ; and if none shall come to his possession or
knowledge, the fact shall be so stated in the inventory.-Code of 1881, § 
1448. • 
§ 1456. (961.] Executor is not released from liability to the estate. 
The naming of any person as executor in a will, or the appointment of
any person as administrator, shall not operate as a discharge from any just
claim which the testator or intestate bad against the executor or adminis­
trator, but the claim shall be included in the inventory, and the executor
and administrator shall be liable to the same extent as he would have been
had he been appointed executor or administrator.--Code of 1881, § 1449. 
§ 1457. (962.] Discharge of debt in will void as against creditors. 
The discharge or bequest in a will of any debt or demand of the testator
against any executor named in his will, or against any other person, shall
not be valid against the creditors of the deceased, but shall be construed
as a specific bequest of such debt or demand, and the amount thereof
shall be included in the inventory, and shall if necessary, be applied in
payment of his debts ; if not necessary for that purpose, it shall be paid
in the same manner and proportions as other specific legacies.-Code ul 
1881, § 1450. 
§ 1458. (963.] Appraisers to sign inventory and executor to 
verify. The inventory shall be signed by the appraisers, and be verified
by the oath of the executor or administrator to the effect that the inven­
tory contains a true statement of all of the estate of the deceased, which
has come to his possession or knowledge, and particularly of all moneys
belonging to the deceased, and of all just claims of the deceased against
the executor or administrator.-Code of 1881, § 1451. 
§ 1459. (964.] Liability for failure to return inventory. If any
executor or administrator shall neglect or refuse to return the inventory
within the period prescribed, or within such 'further time, not exceeding 
three months, as the court shall allow, the court shall revoke the letters
testamentary or of administration ; and the executor or administrator shall
be liable on his bond to any party interested for the injury sustained by
the estate through his neglect.-Code of 1881, § 1452. 
§ 146o. [965.] Additional inventory to be made on discovery of
unscheduled property. Whenever property not mentioned in an inven­
tory shall come to the knowledge and possession of the executor or ad­ 
ministrator, he shall .cause the same to be appraised in the manner pre­
scribed in this chapter, and an additional inventory to be returned, sub­
scribed and sworn to as is provided in this chapter, as soon as practicable
after the discovery thereof, and the making of such inventory may be 
enforced, after notice, by attachment to which may be added the revoca­
tion of the letters.-Code of 1881, ~ 1453. 
§ 1461. [966.] Disposition of personal estate. The personal estate of
the deceased which shall come into the hands of the executor or administra­
tor, shall be first chargeable with the payment of the debts and expenses; and
if the goods, chattels, rights and credits in the hands of the executor or
administrator, shall not be sufficient to pay the debts of the deceased, the
expenses of the administration and the allowance to the family of the de­
ceased, the whole, or so much as may be necessary of the real estate may
be sold for that purpose by the executor or administrator, in the manner
prescribed in this act.-Code of 1881, § 1454. 
§ 1462. [967.] Penalty for embezzling property. If any person, be­
fore the granting of letters testamentary or administration, shall embezzle 
or alienate any of the moneys, goods, chattels, or effects of any deceased
person, he shall stand chargeable, and be liable to the action of the exec­
utor or administrator of the estate, in double the value of the property so
embezzled or alienated, to be recovered for the benefit of the estate.-Code 
of 1881, § 1455. 
Jahns v. Notting, 29 Cal., 510. 
§ 1463. [968.] Party charged with embezzlement to be cited before
court-Costs. If the executor, administrator, heir, legatee, creditor or
other person interested in the estate of any deceased person shall complain
to the court, on oath, that any person is suspected of having concealed, 
embezzled, smuggled, conveyed away or disposed of any moneys, goods
or chattels of the deceased, or that he bas in his possession or knowledge 
any deeds, conveyances, bonds, contracts or other writings which contain 
evidence of or tend to disclose the right, title interest or claim of the de­
ceased to any real or personal estate, or any claim, demand, or last will of
the deceased, the said court may cite such person to appear, and may ex­
amine him on oath upon the matter of such complaint. If such person be 
not in the county where letters have been granted, he may be cited and
examined, either before the court for the county where he may be found,
or. before the court issuing the order or citation ; but in the latter case, if
he appear and be found innocent, his necessary expenses shall be allowed 
him out of the estate.-Laws of 1891, p. 385, * 22. 
§ 1464. [969.] Party refusing to appear may be imprisoned. If
the person so cited refuse to appear and submit to such examination, or to 
answer such interrogatories as may be put to him, touching the matter of
such complaint, the court may, by warrant for that purpose, commit him 
to the county jail, there to remain in close custody until be shall submit to
the order of the court, and all such interrogatories and answers shall be in
writing, and shall be signed by the party examined and filed in the pro­ 
bate court.-Code of 1881, § 1457.
§ 1465. [970.] Same if person refuse to answer citation. The pro­ 
bate court, upon the complaint on oath of any executor or administrator, may 
cite any person who shall have been intrusted with any part of the estate
of the deceased person, to appear before the said court, and may require
such person to give a full account, on oath, of any moneys, goods, chat­
tels, bonds, accounts, or other papers belonging to the estate, which shall
have come to his possession in trust for such executor or administrator,
and of his proceeding thereon; and if the person so cited shall refuse to
appear and answer such account, the court may proceed against him as 
provided in the preceding section.-Code ef 1881, § 1458. 
§ 1466. [971.] Proceedings where estate does not exceed one thou­
sand dollars. If, by the return of the inventory of the estate of any in­
testate who died leaving a widow or minor children, it shall appear that 
the value of the estate does not exceed one thousand dollars, the court
shall, by decree for that purpose, assign for the use and support of the
widow and minor children of the intestate, or for the support of the minor
child or children, if there be no widow, the whole estate, after the pay­
ment of the funeral expenses and expenses of administration, and there
shall be no further proceedings in the administration unless further estate 
be discovered.-Laws ef 1891, p. 385, § 23. 
CHAPTER CXV. 
PROVISIONS FOR SUPPORT OF THE FAMILY. 
t 1467. Family to h~ve possession of home- t 1470. Distribution of property so set apart.
stead. i 1471. Entire estate assets when there is no 
i 1468. Property exempt set aside for the fam- widow or children.
ily. 
e 1469. Allowance to family has preference,
except. 
§ 1467. [972.] Family to have possession of homestead.. When a
person shall die, leaving a widow or minor child or children, the widow,
child or children shall be entitled to remain in possession of the homestead, 
and of all the wearing apparel of the family, and of all the household
furniture of the deceased, and if the head of the family in his lifetime had
not complied with the provisions of the law relative to the acquisition of
a homestead, the widow, or child or children, may comply with such
provisions, and shall be entitled on such compliance to a homestead as
now provided by law for the head of a family, and the same shall be set
aside for the use of the widow, child or children, and shall be exempt
from all claims for the payment of any debt, whether individual or com­
munity. Said homestead shall be for the use and support of said widow,
child or children, and shall not be assets in the hands of any administra­
tor or executor for the debts of the deceased, whether individual or com­ 
munity.-Laws of 1891, p. 386, § 24; 1885-6, p. 170, § 1. 
State v. Lichtenberg, 29 P., 999; 4 W., 231. McMillan's Estate, 23 P., 441; I
W., 29. 
§ 1468. [973.] Property exempt set aside for the family. In case
of the appointment of an executor or administrator upon the death of the 
husband as mentioned in the last preceding section the court shall, with­
out cost to the widow, minor child or children, set apart for the use of such
widow, minor child or children, all the property of the estate by law ex­
empt from execution; if the amount thus exempt be insufficient for the
support of the widow and minor child or children, the court shall make
such further reasonable allowance out of the estate as may be necessary 
for the maintenance of the family according to their circumstances, during
the progress of the settlement of the estate.-Laws of 1891, p. 3861 § 25; 
1885-6, p. 171, § 2. 
§ 1469. [974.] Allowance to family has preference, except. Any
allowance made by the court in accordance with the provisions of the pre­
ceding section, shall be paid by the executor or administrator in preference 
to all other charges ef cept funeral charges and expenses of administra­ 
tion. -Code of 18811 § 1462. 
§ 1470. [975.] Distribution of property so set apart. When prop­
erty shall have been set apart for the use of the family in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter, if the deceased shall have left a widow and 
no minor children, such property shall be the property of the widow ; if
he shall have left also a minor child or children, one-half to the
widow, and the remainder to such child, or in equal shares to such child­
ren, if there are more than one ; if there be no widow then the whole shall 
belong to the minor child or children.-Code of 18811 § 1463. 
McKinnie v. Scaffer, 74 Cal. 614; 16 P., 509. 
§ 1471. (976.] Entire estate assets when there is no widow or
children. If intestate leave no widow or minor children, all his estate
shall be assets in the hands of the administrator, after payment of funeral
expenses and expenses of administration, for the payment of the debts of 
the deceased, or distribution according to law.-Code of 18811 § 1464 . 
t 14i2, 
i 1473. 
f 14;4. 
i 1475. 
e 1476. 
i l4i7- 
{ t 1478. 
f 1479. 
f 148o. 
Notice to creditors to be published.
i 1485.
Judgment against executor-How en- 
Copy of notice to be filed. forced. 
Claims barred in one year.
i 1486.
Judgment against testator must be pre- 
Claims against estate to be certified. seated like other claims. 
Allowance or rejection to be endorsed
! 1487.
Executor may refer claim.
by executor-Notice of rejection.
i 1488.
Referees to hear and determine case- 
Allowed claims shall be filed. Exceptions to decisions. 
If judge presents claim, by whom and
i 148g.
Claim of executor to be presented to
bow allowed.
judge. 
Suit on rejected claims to be brought 
§ 1472. [977.] Notice to creditors to be published. Every executor
or administrator shall immediately after his appointment cause to be pub­ 
lished in some newspaper printed in the county, if there be one, if not,
then in such newspaper as may be designated by the court, a notice to
the creditors of the deceased, requiring all persons having claims against
the deceased to present them, with the necessary vouchers, within one
year after the date of such notice, to such executor or administrator, at
the place of his residence or transaction of business, to be specified in
the notice. Such notice shall be published as often as the probate court
shall deem necessary, but not less than once in a week for four successive 
weeks.-Code of 1881, § x465. 
l 1490. 
Letters revoked if executor fails to give
within three months. notice within two months. 
Claim not allowed if barred.
i! 1491.
Claims to be returned with inventory, 
i 1481.
Claim to be presented before action.
and subsequently as presented.
I 1482.
Time of vacancy excluded. 
i! 1483. 
f 1484. 
CHAPTER CXVI. 
CLAIMS AGAINST THE ESTATE. 
i 149~. 
Notice of removal of executor and new 
Wben testator dies during action claim
appointment.
must be presented. 
Part attowance to be endorsed-Costs
if action brought. 
• 
§ 1473. [978.] Copy of notice to be flied. After the notice shall
have been published, a copy thereof, together with the affidavit attached
thereto, of the publisher or printer of the paper in which the same was
published, shall be filed by the executor or administrator in the probate 
court.-Code of 1881, § 1466. 
§ 1474. [979.J Claims barred in one year. If a claim be not pre­
sented within one year after the first publication of ihe notice, it shall be 
barred. -Code of 188 1 , § 1467. 
Scammon v. Ward, 23 P., 439; 1 W., 179- Reed v. Miller, 25 P., 334; · 1 W., 426. 
§ 1475. [980.J Claims against estate to be verified. Every claim
presented to the administrator shall be supported by the affidavit of the 
claimant, or some one in his behalf to the effect that said claim is correct,
.that the amount claimed is justly due, that no payments have been made
thereon, and that there are no offsets to said claim to the knowledge of the
affiant. When not made by the claimant the affidavit must show the rea­
son why it is made by the affiant. The oath may be taken before any
officer authorized to administer oaths. The executor or administrator may
also require satisfactory vouchers to be produced in support of the claim. 
-Laws of 1883, p. 29, § 1. 
See cases under last section. 
§ 1476. [981.J Allowance or rejection to be indorsed by executor
-Notice of rejection. When.a claim accompanied by the affidavit re­
quired in the preceding section has been presented to the executor or ad­
ministrator, he shall indorse thereon his allowance or rejection, with the 
day and date thereof. If he allow the claim, it shall be presented to the
judge of the probate court, who shall in the same manner indorse on it his
allowance or rejection. If the executor or administrator reject the claim
he shall notify the claimant forthwith of said rejection.-Code of 1881, § 
1469. 
§ 1477. [982.] Allowed claims shall be flied. Every claim which has
been allowed by the executor or administrator and the said judge, shall be 
filed in the probate court and be ranked among the acknowledged debts of
the estate, to be paid in the course of the administration.-Code of 1881, 
§ 1470. 
§ 1478. [983.J If judge present e aim, by whom and how allowed. 
Any judge of a probate court may present a claim against the estate of
any decedent for allowance, to the executor or administrator, and if the
executor or administrator allows such claim, he shall in writing designate
some judge of the probate court of an adjoining county, and the said
judge shall have the same power to allow or reject it as he would have, had
letters issued in bis court; and the claimant shall have, in the event of his
claim being rejected, all the rights incident to any other creditor against
the estate.-Code of 1881, § 1471. 
§ 1479. [984.J Suit on rejected claim to be brought within three
months. When a claim is rejected by either the executor, administrator 
or the judge of probate court, the holder must bring suit in the proper
court against the executor or administrator within three months after its
rejection, otherwise the claim shall be forever barred.-Code of 1881, § 1472. 
§ 1480. [985.] Claim not allowed if barred. No claim shall be al­
lowed by the executor, administrator or probate court which is barred by 
the statute of limitations.-Code of 1881, § 1473. 
§ 1481. [986.] Claim to be presented before action. No holder of
any claim against an estate shall maintain an action thereon, unless the 
claim shall have been first presented to the executor or" administrator.­
Code of 1881, § 1474. 
Casey v. Ault, 29 P., 1048; 4 W., 167. Munholland v. Ault, 32 P., 294. Barlow
v. Coggan, 1 W. T., 257. 
§ 1482. [987 .] Time of vacancy excluded. The time during which
there shall be a vacancy in the administration, shall not be included in any 
limitations herein pres~ribed.-Code of 18811 § 1475. 
§ 1483. [988.] When testator dies during action, claim must be
presented. If any action be pending against the testator or intestate, at
the time of his death, the plaintiff shall, in like manner present his claim
to the executor or administrator for allowance or rejection, authenticated 
as in other cases ; and no recovery shall be bad in the action, unless proof
be made of the presentment.-Code of 18811 § 1476. 
§ 1484. [989.] Part allowance to be endorsed-Costs if action
brought. Whenever any claim shall have been presented to an executor
or administrator and the judge of the probate court, and a part thereof 
shall be allowed, the amount of such allowance shall be stated in the in­
dorsement. If the creditor shall refuse to accept the amount so allowed
in satisfaction of his claim, he shall recover no costs in any action he may
bring against the executor or administrator, unless he shall recover a
greater amount than that offered to be allowed, exclusive of interest and
costs.-Cozie of 1881, § 1477. 
§ 1485. [990.] Judgment against executor-How enforced. The
effect of any judgment rendered against any executor or administrator, 
shall be only to establish the claim, in the same manner as if it had been
allowed by the executor or administrator and the probate court; and the
judgment shall be, that the executor or administrator pay, in due course of
administration, the amount ascertained to be due. A certified transcript
of the judgment shall be filed in the probate court, and no execution shall
issue upon such judgment; nor shall it create a lien upon the property of
the estate, or give the judgment creditor any priority of payment.-Code 
of 1881, § 1478. 
§ 1486. [991.] Judgment against testator must be presented like
other claims. When any judgment has been rendered against the testa­
tor or intestate in his lifetime, no execution shall issue thereon after his 
death, but it shall be presented to the executor or administrator as any
other claim, but need not be supported by the affidavit of the claimant,
and if justly due and unsatisfied, shall be paid in due course of adminis­
tration: Provided, however, That if it be a lien upon any property of the
deceased, the same may be sold for the satisfaction thereof, and the officer
making the sale shall account to the executor or administrator for any sur­ 
plus in his hands.-Code of 1881, § 1479. 
§ 1487. [992.] Executor may refer claim. If the executor or ad­
ministrator doubt the correctness of any claim presented to him,· he may 
enter into an agreement in writing with the claimant to refer the matter
in controversy to some disinterested person or persons, to be approved by 
the judge of the court. Upon filing the agreement in the probate court,
the court shall enter an order referring the matter in controversy to the
persons so selected.-Code of 1881, § 1480. 
~ 1488. [993.] Referees to hear and determine case-Exceptions to
decisions. The referee or referees, having been sworn, shall proceed , to 
hear and determine the case and make return thereof; and their award, if
not excepted to, shall be entered as the decision of the court. If 
· exceptions in writing are filed, the court shall proceed to determine the
case in like manner as other claims are determined. The compensation of
referees shall be the same as allowed to referees in other causes.-Laws of 
1891,p .. 386, § 26: , 
NOTS : See 95n. 
§ 1489. [994.] Claims of executor to be presented to judge. If
the executor or administrator is himself a creditor of the testator or intes­
tate, his claim, duly authenticated by affidavit, shall be presented for al­ 
lowance or rejection to the judge of the court, and its allowance by the
judge shall be sufficient evidence of its correctness.-Laws of 1891, p. 
386, § 27.
§ 1490. [995.] Letters revoked if executor fail to give notice 
within two months. If the executor or administrator shall neglect for
two months, after his appointment, to give notice to creditors as prescribed
by this article, it shall be the duty of the court to revoke his letters.­ 
Code of 1881, § 1483. 
§ 1491. [996.] Claims to be returned with inventory, and subse­
quently as presented. At the same time at which the executor or ad­
ministrator is required to return his inventory, be shall also return a state­
ment of all claims against the estate which shall have been presented to 
him, when required by the court, and from time to time thereafter shall
present a statement of claims subsequently presented to him ; and in all
such statements he shall designate the names of creditors, the nature of
each claim, when it did or will become due, and whether it was allowed or
rejected by him.-Code of 1881, § 1484. · 
§ 1492. [997.] Notice of removal of executor and new appoint­
ment. In case of resignation or removal for any cause of any executor or 
administrator, and the appointment of another or others after notice has
been given by publication as required by law, by such executor or admin­
istrator first appointed, to persons to present their claims against the estate,
it shall be the duty of the judge of the court to cause notice of such resig­
nation or removal and such new appointment to be published two succes­
sive weeks in the same newspaper in which the original notice was pub­
lished, if the publication of such paper is at the time continued, and if not,
then in some other newspaper published in the county, or if there be no
newspaper published in such county, then in a newspaper published in the
state and of general circulation in the county, and the estate shall be closed
up and settled within the year from the date of said original notice, unless
further time be granted by the court as provided by law.-Laws of 1891, 
p. 387, § 28. 
§ 1493. (998.] Sales invalid unless ordered by court-Except. No
sale of any property shall be valid unless the same be made under order of. 
the probate court, unless otherwise provided by will: Provided, always,
That it shall be lawful for' the executor or administrator, when any or all
of the property of deceased consists of perishable property or live stock,
which cannot be retained by the executor or administrator without great
expense or danger of loss, to sell such property or any portion thereof at
private sale, if he be of the opinion that such sale will be to the best inter­
ests of the estate, without said property being appraised, or obtaining an
order of the probate court: Provided, That such sale shall be subject to 
approval by said court.-Laws of 1883, p. 29; § 1486 of Code of 1881, 
amended. 
Wilson v. Morrell, 32 P., 733. See~ 1027. 
§ 1494. (999.] Application for order of sale to be in writing. All 
applications for orders of sale shall be by petition, in writing, in which
shall be set forth the facts, showing the sale to be necessary, and upon the
hearing any person interested in the estate, may file his written objections
which shall be heard and determined.-Code of 1881, § 1487. 
§ 1495. [1000.] Perishable property to be sold within twenty days,
also property for allowance to family. Within twenty days after the
filing of the inventory, the executor or administrator shall apply for an
order to sell the perishable property of the estate, and so much other prop­
erty as may be necessary to be sold, to pay the allowance made to the fam­
ily of the deceased; and the order of sale may be made without notice of
the application, but the executor or administrator shall be responsible for
the value of the property unless the sale be reported to and approved by 
the court.-Laws of 1891, p. 387, § 29. · 
Brewster v. Baxter, 2 W. T., 135; 3 P., 844. 
§ 1496. [1001.] Sales to pay debts and expenses. If the claims
against the estate have been allowed, or a sale of property shall be neces­ 
sary for the payment of the expenses of the administration, he may also
apply for an order to sell so much of the personal estate as shall be neces­ 
sary .-Laws of 1891, p. 387, § 30. 
§ 1497. [1002.] Order of sale, when granted and what to contain. 
If it appear to the court that a sale is necessary, it shall so order. In
making such sale, the court shall order such articles as are not necessary
for the support and subsistence of the family of the deceased, or not
specially bequeathed, to be first sold.-Code of 1881, § 1490. 
§ 1498. [1003.] Personal property to be sold at auction-Notice. 
Sales of personal property shall be made at public action, and after notice
given for at least two weeks, which notice shall be given by notices posted
in ten public places in the county, or by publication in a newspaper, if
the judge shall so order, in which shall be stated the time and place of 
sale.-Code of 1881, § 1491. 
§ 1499. [1004.] Court to order private sale if for the interest of
estate. That in case it shall be made to appear to the satisfaction of the
probate court that it will be for the interest of the estate to allow the exec­
utor or administrator to sell all or any portion of the personal property
belonging to the estate at private sale, the court may so order. All. sales 
of personal property, whether made at public or private sale, with or
without an order of the probate court, shall be returned by the executor
or administrator to said court for confirmation, at the next regular term of
said court after said [rule] [sale] shall have been made.-Laws of 1883, 
p. 30. § 1492, Code of 1881 , amended. · 
NOTE: This section is probably superseded by the laws of 1893 on the subject
of prieate sales. See chapter 126, §§ 1683-1692. 
§ 1500. [1005.] Sale of real property. When the personal estate in
the hands of the executor or administrator shall be insufficient to pay the 
allowance to the family, and all the debts and charges of the administra­
tion, the executor or administrator may sell the real estate for that pur­
pose, upon the order of the probate court. To obtain such order he shall
present a petition to the court, setting forth the amount of the personal
estate that bas come to his hands, and how much, if any, remains undis­
posed of, a list and the amounts of the debts outstanding against the de­
ceased, as far as the same can be ascertained, a description of all the real
estate of which the testator or intestate died seized, the condition and
value of the respective lots and portions, the names and ages of the
devisees, if any, and of the heirs of the deceased, which petition shall be
verified by the oath of the party presenting the same.-Code of 1881, § 
§ 1501. [rooe.] Necessity of sale must appear by petition. If it
shall appear by such petition that there is not sufficient personal estate in 
the hands of the executor or administrator to pay the allowance to the
family, the debts outstanding against the deceased, and the expenses of
administration, and that it is necessary to sell the whole or some portion of
the real estate, for the payment of such debts, the probate court shall
thereupon make an order, directing all persons interested to appear at a
time and place specified, not less than four nor more than eight weeks
from the time of making such order, to show cause why an order shall not
be granted to the executor or administrator to sell the real estate of the de­
ceased, or so much thereof as shall be necessary, to pay such allowances, 
charges and debts.-Code of 1881, § 1494. 
§ 1502. (1007.] Person interested to be served with order-Except. 
A copy of such order to show cause, shall be personally served on all
persons interested in the estate, at least ten days before the time appointed
for hearing the petition, or shall be published at least four successive
weeks in such newspaper as the court shall order : Provided, however, If
all persons interested in the estate shall signify, in writing, their assent 
to such sale, the notice may be dispensed with.-Code of 1881, § 1495. 
§ 1503. (1008.] Bearing of application for order. The probate
court, at the time and place appointed in such order, or at such other time
to which the hearing may be adjourned, upon proof of the due service or
publication of a copy of the order, or upon filing the consent in writing,
to such sale, of all parties interested, shall proceed to the hearing of such
petition; and if such consent be not filed, shall hear and examine the alle­
gation and proofs of the petitioners and of all persons interested in the es­ 
tate, who may oppose the applic3:tion.-Code of 1881, § 1496. 
§ 1504. (1009.] Guardian to be served 'when there are minor
heirs. If any of the devisees or heirs of the deceased are minors, and
have a general guardian in the county, the copy of the order shall be served 
on the guardian. If they have no such guardian, the court shall, before
proceeding to act on the petition, appoint some disinterested person their
guardian for the sole purpose of appearing for them and taking care of their
interests in the proceedings.-Code of 1881, § 1497. 
§ 1505. (1010.] Examination of witnesses and executors. The
executor or administrator may be examined under oath, and witnesses
may be examined by either party, and process may be issued to compel 
their attendance and testimony, by the probate court, in the same manner
and with like effect as in other cases.-Code of 18811 § 1498. 
§ 1506. (10I1.] Part or whole of estate may be sold. If it shall
appear to the court that it is necessary to sell a part of the real estate, and
that by a sale of such part the residue of the estate or some specific part
or piece thereof would be greatly injured, the court may authorize the sale
of the whole estate, or of such part thereof as may be adjudged necessary, 
and most to the interest of all concemed.-Code of 18811 § 1499. 
§ 1507. [ror a.] When order of sale granted. If the probate court
shall be satisfied after a full hearing upon the petition, and on examina­ 
tion of the proofs and allegations of the parties interested, that a sale
of the whole or some portion of the real estate is necessary for the pay­
ment of the allowance to the family, and all valid claims against the
estate and charges of administration, or if such sale be assented to by all 
the parties interested, he shall make an order of sale authorizing the ex­
ecutor or administrator to sell the whole or so much and such parts of the
real estate described in the petition as he shall judge necessary or bene­
ficial.-Code of 1881, § 1500. 
Hanford v. Davies. I W., 476; 25 P.,·_329. . 
§ 1508. (1013.] Conditions of sale to be specified in order. The
order shall specify the lands to be sold and the terms of sale, which
may be either for cash or on credit, and not exceeding six months, as the 
court may direct. If it appear that any part of such real estate has been
devised and not charged in such devise with the payment of debts, the
court shall order that part descended to heirs to be sold, before that so de­
vised. -Code of 1881, § 1501. 
§ 1509. (1014.] Any interested party may apply for order. If the
executor or administrator shall neglect to apply for an order of sale when­
ever it may be necessary, any person interested in the estate may make 
application therefor in the same manner as an executor or administrator,
and notice thereof shall be given to the executor or administrator before
the hearing.-Code of 1881, § 1502. 
§ 1510. (1015.] Clerk to deliver order to executor. Upon making
such order, the clerk of the probate court shall deliver it to the executor 
or administrator, who shall thereupon be authorized to sell the real estate
as directed.-Code of 1881, § 1503. 
§ 1511. (1016.] Notice of sale, how made-Three weeks. When a
sale is ordered, notice of the time and place of sale shall be posted in three 
of the most public places in the county where the land is situated, at
least twenty days before the day of sale, and shall be published in some
newspaper of said county, if any there be, and if not, in some newspaper
of this territory in general circulation in said county, for three successive
weeks next before such sale in which notice the lands and tenements shall
be described with proper certainty.-Laws of 1887-8, p .. 187, § 1. 
· § 1512. (1017.] Sale to be at auction and in county where· land
lies. Such sale shall be in the county where the lands are situated, at
public auction, behi:een the hours of ten o'clock in the morning and the
setting of the sun the same day; but if the executor or administratorshall
deem it for the interest of all concerned that the sale should be postponed,
he may adjourn it for any time not exceeding fourteen days.-Code of 
1881, § 1505. 
§ 1513. (1018.] Notice of postponement-Bow made. In case of
such adjournment notice thereof shall be given by a public proclamation
at the time and place first appointed for the sale ; and if the adjournment 
shall be for more than one day, further notice shall be given by posting or
publishing as the time and circumstances may admit.-Code of 1881, § 15o6. 
§ 1514. (1019.] Sale on credit and security taken. The executor or
administrator shall, when the sale is on credit, take the note or notes of 
the purchaser for the purchase money, with surety, and mortgage on the
property to secure their payment.--Code of 1881, § 1507. 
§ 1515. (1020.] Executor to return proceedings of sale within ten
days. The executor or administrator making any sale of real estate shall, 
within ten days thereafter, make a return of bis proceedings to the court,
which shall examine the same, and if the court shall be of opinion that 
the proceedings were unfair, or that the sum bidden is disproportionate to
the value, and that a sum exceeding such bid at least ten per cent., exclu­
sive of expenses of a new sale, may be obtained, the order of sale shall be 
vacated, [ and] another sale shall be ordered. On a resale, notice shall be
given and the sale shall be conducted-in all respects as if no previous sale 
had been made.-Laws of 1891, p. 387, § 31. 
§ 1516. [1021.] Objection to confirmation of sale, how and by
whom made. When the return of the sale is made any person interested
in the estate may file written objections to the confirmation of the sale, and 
may be heard and produce witnesses in support of his objections. - Code
of 1881, § 1509. 
Terry v. Clothier, I W., 475; 25 P., 673. 
§ 1517. [roaa.] Confirmation of sale and order to convey. If it
appear to the court that the sale was legally made and fairly conducted, 
and that the sum bidden was not disproportionate to the value of the prop­ 
erty sold, or if disproportionate, that a greater sum as above specified, can­
not be obtained, the court shall make an order confirming the sale and di­
recting conveyances to be executed; and such sale, from that time, shall 
be confirmed and valid.-Code of 1881, § 15rn. 
§ 1518. [roag.] Conveyances by executor. Such conveyances shall
thereupon be executed to the purchaser by the executor or administrator.
They shall refer to the original order authorizing a sale, and the order 
confirming the sale and directing the conveyance; and they shall be
deemed to convey all the estate, rights and interest of the testator or intes­
tate at the time of his death.-Code of 1881, § 1511. 
§ 1519. [1024.] Proof ot notice before confirmation of sale. Be­
fore any order is entered confirming the sale, it shall be prov.en to the sat­ 
isfaction of the probate court that notice of the sale was given, as herein
prescribed, and the order of confirmation shall state that such proof was 
ma4e.-Code of 1881, § 1512. 
§ 1..520. [1025.] Sale may be ordered to pay debts and legacies.
When a testator shall have given any legacy by will that is effectual to
charge real estate, and his goods, chattels, rights, and credits shall be in­ 
sufficient topay such legacy, together with its debts and charges of ad­
ministration, the executor or administrator with the will annexed may ob­
tain an order to sell his real estate for that purpose in the same manner
and upon the same terms and conditions as are prescribed in this act in
case of a sale for the payment of debts.-Code of 1881, § 1513. 
§ 1521. [1026.] When will provides for payment of debts, direc­
tions to be followed. If the testator shall make provision by his will,
or designate the estate to be appropriated for the payment of his debts,
the expenses of administration, or family expenses, they shall be paid ac­
cording to the provision of the will, and out of the estate thus appropri­
ated, so far as the same may be su:fficient.--Code of 1881, § 1514. 
§ 1522. [rn27.] Order not necessary when will provides for sale.
When such provision has been made, or any property directed to be sold,
the executor or administrator with the will annexed may proceed to sell
without the· order of the court; but he shall be bound as an administrator 
to give notice of the sale and to proceed in making the sale in all respects
as if he were under the order of the court, unless there are special direc­
tions given in the will, in which case he shall be governed by such direc- 
tions; but in [no] [all] cases he shall make return of the sale to the court,
which shall vacate such sale unless the same shall appear in all respects
to be made according to law in like manner as upon sales made by admin­ 
istrator.-Laws of 1891, p. 388, § 32. 
See§ 1535. . 
§ 1523. [1028.] Other property sold to pay debts when that desig­
nated not sufficient. If the provision made by the will or the estate ap­
propriated be not sufficient to pay the debts and expenses of administra­
tion and family expenses, such part of the estate as shall not have been dis­ 
posed of by the will, if any, shall be appropriated for that purpose, ac­
cording to the provisions of this act.-Code of 1881, § 1516. 
§ 1524. [1029.] Property bequeathed liable for debts. The estate,
teal and personal, given by the will to any legatees or devisees, shall be
held liable for the payment of the debts, the expenses of administration
and of the family, in proportion to the value or amount of the several de­ 
vises or legacies, if there shall not be other sufficient estate, except that
specific devises or legacies may be exempted if it appear to the court nec­
essary to carry into effect the intention of the testator.-Code of 18811 
§ 1517. 
§ 1525. [ 1030.] All devisees and legatees to contribute. When the
estate given by any will has been sold for the payment of debts and ex­ 
penses, all the devisees and legatees shall be liable to contribute according
to their respective interests, to any devisee or legatee from whom the estate
devised to him may be taken for the payment of the debts or expenses ;
and the probate court when distribution is made, shall by decree for that
purpose, settle the amount of the several liabilities and decree how much
each person shall contribute.-Code of 18811 § 1518. 
§ 1526. [103 r.] Contingent interest in land may be sold. lf the
deceased person at the time of his death was possessed of a contract for 
the purchase of lands, his interest in such lands under such contract may
be sold on the application of his executor or administrator, in the same
manner as if he had died seized of such lands ; and the same proceedings
may be had for that purpose as are prescribed in this act, in respect to
lands of which he died seized, except as hereinafter provided.-Code of 
1881, § 1519. 
§ 1527. [1032.] Such sale made subject to the conditions-Bond of
purchaser. Such sale shall be made subject to all payments that may 
thereafter become due on such contract, and if there be any such pay­
ments thereafter to become due, such sale shall not be confirmed by the
probate court until the purchaser shall have executed a bond to the exec­
utor or administrator for his benefit and indemnity, and for the benefit and
indemnity of the persons entitled to the interest of the deceased in lands
so contracted for, in double the whole amount of the payments thereafter
to become due on such contract, with such sureties as the probate court
shall approve.-Code of 18811 § 1520. 
§ 1528. [1033.] Conditions of bond. Such bond shall be conditioned
that the purchaser will make all payments for such land as shall become 
due after the date of such sale, and will fully indemnify the executor or
administrator and the person so entitled against all demands, costs and
charges and expenses by reason of any covenant or agreement contained
in such contract ; but if there be no payments thereafter to become due on 
such contract, no bond shall be required of the purchaser.-Code of 1881,
§ 1521. 
§ 1529. [1034.] ABSignment of executor. Upon the confirmation of
such sale, the executor or administrator shall execute to the purchaser an 
assignment of the contract, which assignment shall vest in the purchaser,
his heirs· and assigns, all the right, title and interest of the persons entitled to the interest of the deceased in the land sold at the time of the
sale; and such purchaser shall have the same rights and remedies against
the vendor of such lands as the deceased would have had if living.-Code 
of 1881, § 1522. 
§ 1530. [10J5.J Redemption of mortgaged property. If any per­
son die, having mortgaged any real or personal estate, and shall not have 
devised the same or provided for the redemption thereof by will, the pro­
bate court, upon the application of any person interested, may order the
executor or administrator to redeem the estate out of the personal assets,
if it should appear to the satisfaction of the court that such redemption
would be beneficial to the estate and not injurious to creditors. -Code of 
1881, § 1523. 
Casey v. Ault, 29 P., 1048; 4 W., 167. Scammon v. Ward, 23 P., 439; 1 W., 179.
Ryan v. Ferguson, 28 P., 910; 3 W., 356. 
§ 1531. [1036.] Other property may be sold to redeem. If it shall
be made to appear to the satisfaction of the probate court that it will be to 
the interest of the estate of any deceased person to sell other real or per­
sonal estate of the decedent than that mortgaged by him, to redeem the
real estate so mortgaged; the probate court may order any real or personal
estate of the decedent, which it may deem expedient, to be sold for such
purpose, which sale shall be conducted in all respects as other sales of like
property ordered by the probate court.-Laws of 1887-8, p. 185, § 1. 
§ 1532. [1037.] When mortgaged property may be sold-Interest
conveyed, etc. If such redemption be not deemed expedient, the court 
shall order such property to be sold at public sale, which sale shall be
with the same notice, and conducted in the same manner as required in
other cases of real estate provided for in this· act, and the executor or ad­
ministrator shall thereupon execute a conveyance thereof to the purchaser,·
which conveyance shall be effectual to convey to the purchaser all the
right, title and interest which the deceased would have had in the prop­
erty had not the same been mortgaged by him, and the purchase-money,
after paying the expenses of the sale, shall first be applied t:o the payment
and discharge of such mortgage, and the residue in due course of admin­
istration. If said sale of the mortgaged premises shall be insufficient to
secure the mortgaged debt, the mortgagee shall file a claim for balance,
authenticated as other claims and payable in due course of administration. 
-Code of 1881, § 1524. 
Ryan v. Ferguson, 28 P,, 910; 3 W., 356. Casey v. Ault, 29 P., 1048; 4 W., 167. 
§ 1533. [ 1038.] Executor and sureties liable for neglect. If there
shall be any neglect or misconduct in the proceedings of the executor or 
administrator in relation to any sale, by which any person interested in the
estate shall suffer damages, the party aggrieved may recover the same in a
suit upon the bond of the executor or administrator, or otherwise, as the
case may require.-Code of 1881, § 1525. 
§ 1534. [1039.] Double liability for fraudulent sale. Any executor
or administrator who shall fraudulently .sell any real estate of his testator 
or intestate, contrary to the provisions of this act, shall be liable in double
the value of the land sold, as damages, to be recovered in an action by
the person or persons having an estate of inheritance therein.-Code of 
188 r , § 1526. 
* 1535. [1040.] Directions in will to be followed-Sale must be
confirmed. When property is directed by will to be sold, or authority is
given in the will to sell property, the executor may sell any property of 
the estate without the order of the probate court, and, either at public or
private sale, and with or without notice, as the executor may determine;
but the executor must make return of such sales as in other cases; and if
directions are given in the will as to the mode of selling, or of the partic­
ular property to be sold such directions must be observed. In either case,
no title passes unless the sale is confirmed by the court.-Code of 1881, 
§ 1527. 
See§ 1522. 
§ 1.i;36. [3066.*] When sale by executors not void for irregulari­
ties. In case of an action relating to any estate sold by an executor, ad­
ministrator or guardian, in which an heir or person claiming under the de­ 
ceased, or in which the ward or any person claiming under him, shall con­
test the validity of the sale, it shall not be voided on account of any irreg­
ularity in the proceedings : Provided, It appears- 
1. That the executor, administrator or guardian was ordered to make
the sale, by the probate or superior court having jurisdiction of the estate; 
2. That he gave a bond which was approved by the probate or superior
judge, in case a bond was required upon granting the order; 
3. That he gave notice of the time and place of sale, as in the order
and by law prescribed, and, 
4. That the premises were sold accordingly, by public auction, and the
sale confirmed by the court, and that they are held by one who purchased
them in good faith.-Laws of 1889-90, p. 82, § 2. 
§ 1537. [3067.*] Oonveyance not void if court directed same. If 
the validity of a sale is drawn in question by a person claiming adversely
to the title of the deceased, or the ward, or claiming under a title that is
not derived from or through the deceased or ward, the sale shall not be 
void on account of any irregularity in the proceedings if it appears that
the executor, administrator or guardian was licensed to make the sale by
a probate or superior court having jurisdiction of the estate, and that he
did accordingly execute and acknowledge, in legal form, a deed for the 
conveyance of the premises.-Laws of 1889-90, p. 82, § 3. 
§ 1538. [3068. *] Act to apply to past as "1ell as future sales. This
act shall apply to sales heretofore as well as hereafter made, and all sales 
heretofore made in conformity with the provisions of this title are declared
valid.-Laws of 1889-90, p. 82, § 4. 
"This act" consists of the three preceding sections and section of 
§ 1539. [1041.] Executor or administrator to take possession of
entire estate. The executor or administrator shall take into his posses­
sion all the estate of the deceased, real and personal, and collect all · debts 
due to the deceased.-Code of 1881, § 1528. 
Balch v. Smith, joP., 648; 4 W., 497. Dunn v. Peterson, 29 P., 998; 4 W., 170.
Territory v. Klee, 2., P., 417 ; 1 W., 183. · 
§ 1540. [ 1042.] Actions maintainable by and against them. Actions
for the recovery of any property, real or personal, or for the possession 
thereof, and all actions founded upon contracts, may be maintained by and
against executors and administrators in all cases in which the same might
have been maintained by or against their respective testators or intestates.
-Code of 1881, § 1529. 
Dunn v. Peterson, 29 P., 998; 4 W., 170. 
§ 1541. [roaj.] Actions for waste, trespass, etc., brought by them. 
Executors and administrators may maintain actions against any person
who shall have wasted, destroyed, taken, carried away or converted to his
own use the goods of their testator or intestate in his lifetime, also may
maintain actions for trespass committed on the estate of the deceased
during his lifetime.--Code of 1881, § 1530. 
§ 1542. [1044.] Actions for waste, trespass, etc., against them. Any
person, or his personal representatives, shall have an action against the 
executor or administrator of any estate or intestate who in his lifetime
shall have wasted, destroyed, taken, or carried away, or converted to his
own use the goods and chattels of any such person, or committed any
trespass on the real estate of such person.-Code of 1881, § 1531. 
§ 1543. [1045.] May bring action on bond of former administra­
tor. Any administrator may in his own name, for the use and benefit of 
all parties interested in the estate, maintain actions on the bond of an ex­
ecutor or of any former administrator of the same estate.-Code of 1881, 
§ 1532.
§ 1544. [1046.] May, with consent of court, discharge debtor, 
when. Whenever a debtor of a deceased person shall be unable to pay
all his debts, the executor or administrator may, with the approbation of
the probate court, compound with him and give him a discharge upon re­
ceiving a fair and just dividend of his effects.-Code of 1881, § 1533. 
§ 1545. [rn47.] May sue for.the recovery of property fraudulently
conveyed. When there shall be a deficiency of assets in the hands of
an executor or administrator, and when the deceased shall in his lifetime
have conveyed any real estate or any right or interest therein, with intent 
to defraud his creditors or to avoid any right, duty or debt of any person,
or shall have so conveyed such estate, which deeds or conveyances by law
are void as against creditors, the executor or administrator may, and it
shall be his duty to commence and prosecute to final judgment any proper
action for the recovery of the same, and .may recover for the benefit of
the creditors all such real estate fraudulently conveyed, and may also, for
the benefit of the creditors, sue and recover all goods, chattels, rights and
credits which may have been so fraudulently conveyed by the deceased in
his lifetime, whatever may have been the manner of such fraudulent con­ 
veyance.-Code of 1881, § 1534. 
§ 1546. [1048.] Not bound to sue, except upon application and
payment of costs. No executor or administrator shall be bound to sue 
for such estate as mentioned in the preceding section, for the benefit
of the creditors, unless on application of the creditors of the deceased;
and the creditors making such application shall pay such part of the costs
and expenses, or give such security to the executor or administrator 
thereof as the probate court shall direct.-Codc of 1881, § 1535. 
§ 1547. [1049.] Property so recovered sold same as other estate. 
The real estate so recovered shall be sold for the payment of debts in the
same manner as if the deceased had died seized thereof, upon obtaining
an order therefor from the probate court, and the proceeds of all goods,
chattels, rights and credits so recovered, shall be appropriated in payment
of debts of the deceased, in the same manner as other property in the
hands of the executor or administrator.-Code of 1881, § 1536. 
§ 1548. [1050.] Executor or administrator not personally liable
unless promise is in writing. No executor or administrator shall be
chargeable upon any special promise to answer damages or to pay the
debts of the testator or intestate out of his own estate, unless the agree­
ment for that purpose or some memorandum or note thereof is in writing,
and signed by such executor or administrator, or by some other person by 
him thereunto specially authorized.-Code of 1881, § 1537. 
§ 1549. [1051.] Chargeable with entire estate-Except. Every
executor or administrator shall be chargeable in bis accounts with the 
whole estate of the deceased which may come into his possession, at the
value of the appraisement contained in the inventory, except as provided
in the following sections, and with the interest, profit, and income of the 
estate.-Code of 1881, § 1538. 
§ 1550. [1052.] Not to profit from estate or lose without fault. 
He shall not make profit by the increase nor suffer loss by the decrease or
destruction, without his fault, of any part of the estate. He shall account
for the excess when he shall have sold any part of the estate for more
than the appraisement, and if any has been sold for less than the appraise­
ment he shall not be responsible for the loss if the sale has been justly
made.-Code of 1881, § 1539. 
§ 1551. [1053.] Not accountable for bad debts. No executor or ad­
ministrator shall be accountable for any debts due the estate if it shall ap­ 
pear that they remain uncollected without his fault.--·Code of 1881, §
1540. 
§ 1552. [1054.] Compensation when provided for by will. He
shall be allowed all necessary expenses in the care, management, and set­
tlement of the estate, and for his services such fees as the law provides, 
but when the deceased, by will, shall have made some other provision for
the compensation of his executor, that shall be deemed a full compensa­
tion for his services, unless he shall by a written instrument, filed in the
probate court, renounce all claim for compensation provided by the will. 
-Code of 1881, § 1541. 
In re Young, 30 P., 643. 
§ 1553. (1055.] Olaims against estate not to be purchased by ex-
ecutor, etc. No administrator or executor shall purchase any claim
against the estate he represents, and if be shall have paid any claim for .
less than its nominal value, he shall only be entitled to charge in his ac­ 
count so much as he shall have actually paid.-Co({eof 1881, ~ 1542. 
§ 1554. (1056.] Compensation other than provided by will. When
no compensation shall have been provided by will, or the executor shall
renounce his claim thereto, he shall be allowed commission on the whole 
estate accounted for by him as follows: For the first one thousand dollars,
at the rate of seven per cent.; for all above that sum and not exceeding
two thousand dollars, at the rate of five per cent.; for all above that sum,
at the rate of four per cent., and the same commission shall be allowed to
administrators. In all cases such further allowance may be made as the
probate court shall deem just and reasonable· for any extraordinary ser­
vices not required of an executor or administrator in the common course 
of his duty: Provided, That the total amount of such allowance shall not
exceed the amount of commission allowed in this section.-Code of 1881, 
§ 1543. .
§ 1555. [1057.] Exhibit to be rendered within six months. With­ 
in six months after his appointment, and thereafter at any time when re­
quired by the court, either upon its own motion or the application of any
person interested in the estate, the executor or administrator shall render
for the information of the court an exhibit under oath, showing the
amount of money received and expended by him, the amount of all claims
presented against the estate, and the names of the claimants, and all other
matters necessary to show the condition of its affairs.-Code of 1881, § 
1544. 
§ 1556. [1058.] Court to cite on failure to render. If the executor
or administrator fail to render an exhibit within six months, as required in 
the last preceding section, it shall be the duty of the probate court to is­
sue a citation requiring him to appear and render it.-Code of 1881, § 
1545. 
§ 1557. [1059.] Interested person may petition for exhibit. Any
person interested in the estate may at any time before the final settlement of 
accounts present his petition to the probate court praying that the executor
or administrator be required to appear and render such exhibit, setting forth
the facts showing that it is necessary and proper that such an exhibit 
shall be m~de.-Code of 1881, § 1546.
§ 1558. [106o.] Upon what showing, court will order exhibit. If 
the court be satisfied, either from the oath of the applicant or from any
other testimony that may be offered, that the facts alleged are true, and
shall consider the showing of the applicant sufficient, a citation shall be 
issued to the executor or administrator req niring him to appear on some
day named in the citation and render an exhibit as prayed for.-Laws of 
1891, p. 388, § 33.
§ 1559. [1061 .] Exhibit may be contested-Proceedings thereon. 
When an exhibit is rendered by an executor or administrator, any person
interested may appear, and by objections in writing, contest any account
or statement therein contained. The court may examine the executor or
administrator and if he have been guilty of negligence, or wasted, em­
bezzled or mismanaged the estate, his letters shall be revoked.-Code of 
1881, § 1548.
§ 1560. [1062.] Attachment may issue to compel exhibit or letten 
. be revoked. If any executor or administrator neglect or refuse to appear
and render an exhibit after having been duly cited, an attachment may be 
issued against him, or his letters may be revoked, in the discretion of the
court.-Code of 1881, § 1549. 
§ 1561. [1063.] Pull account on expiration of one year. Every ex­
ecutor or administrator shall render a full account of his administration at 
the expiration of one year from the time of his appointment. If he fail to
present his account it shall be the duty of the court to compel the ren­
dering of such account by attachment, and any person interested in the
estate may apply for and obtain an attachment but no attachment shall
issue unless a citation shall have been first issued and returned, requiring
the executor or administrator to appear and show cause why an attach­ 
ment should not issue.-Code of 1881, § 1550. 
§ 1562. (1064.] Citation after revocation of authority. Whenever
the authority of an executor or administrator shall cease, or be revoked 
for any reason, he may be cited to account before the probate court, at the
instance of the person succeeding to the administration of the estate, in
like manner as he might have been cited by any person interested in the
estate, during the time he was administrator or executor.-Cade of 1881, § 
1551. 
§ 1563. (1065.] Revocation of letters for failure to render account. 
If the executor or administrator resides out of the county, or absconds or
conceals himself so that the citation cannot be personally served and shall
neglect to render an account within thirty days after the time above pre­
scribed, or if he shall neglect to render'an account within thirty days after
having been committed where the attachment has been executed, his let­
ters shall be revoked.-Code of 1881, § 1552. 
§ 1564. (rn66.] Vouchers to accompany account. In rendering his
account the executor or administrator shall produce vouchers for the ex­ 
penses and charges which he shall have paid, which vouchers shall be filed
and remain in court ; and he may be examined on oath touching such
payments, and also touching any property and effects of the deceased, and 
the disposition thereof.-Code of 1881, § 1553.
§ 1565. (1067.] When vouchers not required. On the settlement of 
his account, he may be allowed any item of expenditure not exceeding
twenty dollars for which no voucher is produced, if such item be supported
by his own oath, positive to the fact of payment, specifying when, where,
and to whom payment was made, if such oath be uncontradicted ; but such
allowances, in the whole, shall not exceed three hundred dollars for pay­ 
ment in behalf of any one estate.-Code of 1881, § 1554. 
§ 1566. [ross.] Monument may be erected with consent of court. 
Executors and administrators of the estates of deceased persons are hereby
authorized by and with the consent of the probate court of the proper
county, to expend a reasonable sum out of the estate of the decedent, to
erect a monument, or tombstone, suitable to mark the grave of said de­
cedent, and the expense thereof shall be paid as expenses of administra­ 
tion are paid.-C~de of 1881, § 1555. 
§ 1567. (1o69.] Pinal settlement-Notice of· hearing. When the
account is rendered for settlement, the court, or the judge thereof, shall
appoint a day for the hearing and settlement of the same, and notice of 
such hearing and settlement shall be given by posting notices thereof in
three of the most public places in the county, and publishing' a similar no­
tice of such time as the court or judge may order, in a newspaper pub­
lished in the county, or if there be no newspaper published in the county,
then in a newspaper published in the state and of general circulation in the
county. The notice shall set forth the name of the estate, of the executor
or administrator and the day appointed for the settlement of account, which
shall be on some day not more than six weeks after the filing of the ac­ 
count. -Laws of 1891, p. 388, § 34. 
§ 1568. [1070.] Exceptions to final account. On the day appointed,
or on any subsequent day to which the hearing may have been adjourned
by the court, any person interested in the estate may appear and file his 
exceptions in writing to the account, and contest the same. -Code of 1881,
§ 1557. 
§ 1569. [1071 .] Guardian ad litem for minor. If there be any
minor interested in the estate who has no legally appointed guardian, the
court shall appoint some disinterested person to represent him, who, on 
behalf of the minor, may contest the account as any other person inter­
ested might contest it, and who shall be allowed by the court a reasonable
compensation for his services.-Code of 1881, § 1558. 
§ 1570. (1072.] Adjournment of hearing. The hearing and allega­
tions of the respective parties may be adjourned from time to time as shall 
be necessary.-Code of 1881, § 155g.
§ 1571. (1073.] Pinal settlement ot accounts when conclusive. 
The settlement of the account and the allowance thereof by the court, or
upon appeal, shall be conclusive against all persons in any way interested
in the estate, saving, however, to all persons laboring under any legal dis­
ability, the right to proceed against the executor or administrator, either
individually or upon his bond, within two years after their respective dis­
abilities shall have ceased, and in any action brought by any such person,
the allowance and settlement of the account shall be deemed presumptive
evidence of its correctness.-Code of 1881, § 156o. 
Bower v. Hughes, 32 P., g8. 
§ 1572. (1oj4.] Proof of notice required before account allowed. 
The account shall not be allowed by the court until it be first proven that
notice has been given as required by this act, and the decree shall show
that such proof was made to the satisfaction of the court, and shall be con­
clusive evidence of the fact.-Code of r881, § 1561. 
§ 1573. (1075.] Order of payment of debts. The debts of the estate
shall be paid in the following order : 
1. Funeral expenses. 
2. Expenses of the last sickness.
3. Debts having preference by the laws of the United States.
4. Taxes or any dues to the territory.
5. Judgments rendered against the deceased in his lifetime on which 
execution might have issued at the time of his death, and mortgages in
the order of their date. 
6. All other demands against the estate.-Code of 1881, § 1562.
§ 1574. [1076.] Proceeds of mortgaged property. The preference 
given in the preceding section to a mortgage, shall only extend to the pro­
ceeds of the property mortgaged; if the proceeds of such property be in­
sufficient to pay the mortgage, the part remaining unsatisfied shall be
classed with other demands against the estate.-Code of 1881, § 1563. 
§ 1575. [1077.] Apportionment when estate insufficient to pay
debts-Creditors receive dividends. If the estate be insufficient to
pay the debts of any one class, each creditor shall be paid a dividend in
proportion to his claim, and no creditor of any one class shall receive any 
payment until all those of the preceding class shall have been fully paid.­
Code of 1881, § 1564. 
§ 1576. [1078.] :runeral expenses, allowance to family, etc., paid
without order. It shall be the duty of the executor or administrator, as
soon as he may have sufficient funds in his hands, to pay the funeral ex­
penses, and expenses of the last sickness, and the allowance made to the
family of the deceased, and he may retain in his hands the necessary ex­
penses of administration, but he shall not be obliged to pay any other debt 
or any legacy, until as prescribed by this act, the payment has been or­
dered by the court.-Code of 1881, § 1565. 
§ 1577. [1079.] Order for payment-What to contain. Upon the
settlement of the accounts of the executor or administrator at the end of 
the year, as required by this act, the court shall make an order for the
payment of the debts, as the circumstances of the estate shall require. If
there be not sufficient funds in the hands of the executors or adminis­
trators, the court shall specify in the decree the sum to be paid each cred­
itor .-Code ef 1881, § 1566. 
§ 1578. [1080.] Contingent, disputed and undue claims. If there
be any claim not due, or any contingent or disputed claim against the
estate, the amount thereof, or such part thereof as the holder would be entitled to if the claim were due, established, or absolute, shall be paid into
the court, where it shall remain, to be paid over to the party when he shall
become entitled thereto; or if he fail to establish his claim, to be paid over
or distributed, as the circumstances of. the' case may require : Prooided,
That if any creditor whose claim has been allowed, but is not yet due,
shall appear and assent to a reduction therefrom of the legal interest for
the time the claim has yet to run he shall be entitled to be paid accord­ 
ingly. -Code of 1881, § 1567. 
§ 1579. [rosr.] After decree of payment, administrator person­ 
ally liable. Whenever a decree shall have been made by the court for
the payment of creditors, the executor or administrator shall be personally
liable to each creditor for his claim, or the dividend thereon; and the ex­
ecution may be issued on such decree as upon a judgment in favor of each
creditor. The executor or administrator shall also be liable on his bond 
to each creditor.-Laws of 1891, p. 389, § 35. 
§ 1580. [1082.] Legatees, etc., not obliged to contribute to cred­
itor whose name was omitted. When the accounts of the executor or
administrator have been settled, and an order made for the payment of the
debts and distribution of the estate, no creditor whose name was not in­ 
cluded in the order of payment, shall have any right to call upon the cred­ 
itors who have been paid, or upon the heirs, legatees or devisees to con­
tribute for the payment of his claim; but ·if the executor or administrator
shall have failed to give the notice to creditors as prescribed in this act,
such creditor may recover on the. bond of the executor or administrator
the amount of his claim, or such part thereof as he would have been entitled to had it been allowed: Provided, That this section shall not apply
to any creditor whose claim was not due one year before the day of settle­
ment, or whose claim was contingent and did not become absolute, one 
year before such day.-Codc of 1881, § 1569. 
§ 1581. [rosg.] Payment of legacies and dlstribution of estate. 
If all the debts shall have been paid by the first distribution, the court
shall proceed to direct the payment of legacies, and the distribution of the
estate among the heirs, legatees, or other persons entitled; but if there be
debts remaining unpaid, the court shall give such extension of time as
may be reasonable for the final settlement of the same.-Code of 1881, § 
1570. 
§ 1582 .. [1084.] Final account, when made. At the time designated,
or sooner, if within that time all property of the estate shall have been 
sold, or there shall be sufficient funds in his hands to pay all the debts due 
by the estate, the executor or administrator shall render a final account
and pray a settlement of the estate.-Code of 1881, § 1571. 
§ 1583. [1085.] Proceedings on failure to render flnal account. 
If the executor or administrator neglect to render his final account, the
same proceedings may be had as are prescribed in this chapter in regard
to the first account to be rendered by him; and all the provisions of this
act relative to the last-mentioned account and the notice and settlement
thereof shall apply to his account presented for final settlement.-Lau,s of 
1891, p. 389, § 36. 
McCoy v. Ayres, 2 W. T., 307; 5 P., 843. . 
@ 1s84- 
i 1585. 
i 1586. 
i 1587. 
i 1sSS. 
i 1589. 
i 1590. 
i 1591. 
i 1592. 
i 1593. 
i 1594. 
f 1595- 
i 1596. 
i 1597. 
i 1.sgS. 
f 1599- 
Legatees may petition for payment of
i 16oo.
Whole estate may be given to one partv ,
legadeBT-Bond
if be pay others. 
Notice same as in settlement of ac-
I i6<n.
Owelty when shares unequal.
counts. f 16o2.
When estate can not be divided it may 
Interested person may appear and re-
be sold.
sist.
i 16o3.
Estate in common of testator must first 
On hearing court may order payment
be partitioned.
of legacies.
i 1004.
Guardian, etc., to be appointed before 
Order may be for payment of whole or
partition.
part.
i 16o5.
Report of commissioners-To be
re- 
If partition necessary, ~ay be ordered.
corded. 
Applicant to pay costs.
i 16o6.
When commissioners need not be ap- 
B:sccutor to petition for order to pay.
pointed. 
Settlement of account and distribution.
i 16o7.
Advancements to be specified in order. 
Court to name person and portion he
@ 16o8.
Court to appoint agent for non-resident;
shall receive.
i 16og.
Agent to give bonds-Compensation. 
Executor or interested party to petition
f 1610. If agent fail to sell in one year, court
for decree=Notice. may. 
Partition made, bow and when.
l 16n.
Liability of agent on bond. 
Property in different counties to be
f 1612.
Payment of money on auditor's war- 
§ 1584. [1086.] Legatees may petition for payment of legacies­
Bond. At any time after six months from the issuing letters testamen­
tary or of administration, any heir, legatee or devisee may present his 
petition to the court that the legacy or share of the estate to which he is
entitled may be given to him upon his giving bonds, with security, for the
payment of his proportion of the debts of the estate.-Laws of 1891, p. 
389, § 37· 
CHAPTER CXX. 
PARTITION AND DISTRIBUTION OF THE ESTATE. 
separately divided.
rant. 
Partition may be ordered after notice.
i 1613.
Decree of discharge on settlement of 
Assignee of shares may take.
estate. 
Shares to be separate unless by consent.
i 161 ••
Letters to be subsequently issued on
discovery of otber estate. 
Balch v. Smith, 30 P., 648; 4 W., 497. Lawrence v. B. B. & B. C. Ry., 30 P.,
1099; 4 w.' 664. 
§ 1585. [1087.] Notice same as in settlement of accounts. Notice
of the application shall be given to the executor or administrator, and to 
all persons interested in the estate, in the same manner that notice is re­
quired to be givenof the settlement of the account of the executor or ad­
ministrator.-Code of 1881, § 1574. 
* 1586. [1088.] Interested person may appear and resist. The ex­
ecutor, administrator, or any person interested in the estate, may appear 
and resist the application; or any other heir, legatee, or devisee, may make
a similar application for himself.-Code of 1881, § 1575. 
§ 1587. [rosc.] On hearing court may order payment of legacies. 
If, on the hearing, it appear to the court that the estate is but little in
debt, and that the share of the parties applying may be allowed without
injury to the creditors of the estate, the court shall make a decree in con­
formity with the prayer of the applicant or applicants: Provided, Each one
of them shall first execute and deliver to the executor or administrator, a
bond in such sum as shall be designated by the probate court, and with
sureties to be approved by the judge thereof, to the executor or adminis­
trator, conditioned for the payment by the devisee or legatee, whenever
required, of his proportion of the debts due from the estate.-Code of 1881, 
§ 1576. 
§ 1588. (1090.] Order may be for payment of whole or part. Such
decree may order the executor or administrator to deliver to the heir, de-.
visee or legatee, the whole portion of the estate to which he may be entitled, or only a part thereof.-Code of 1881, § 1577.
§ 1589. (1091.] If partition necessary, may be ordered. If, in the 
execution of such decree, any partition be necessary between two or more
of the parties interested, it shall be made in the manner hereinafter pre­
scribed.-Code of 1881, § 1578. 
§ 1590. [ 1092.] Applicant to pay costs. The costs of the proceed­
ings authorized by the preceding section shall be paid by the applicant, or 
if there be more than one, shall be equally apportioned among them.­
Code of 1881, § 1579. 
§ 1591. (1093.] Executor to petition for order to pay. Whenever
any bond has been executed and delivered under the provisions of the
preceding sections, and the executor or administrator shall ascertain that 
it is necessary for the settlement of the estate, to require the payment of
any part of the money thereby secured, he shall petition the court for an
order requiring the payment, and shall have a citation issued and served
on the party bound, requiring him to appear and show cause why the
order shall not be made. At the hearing, the court, if satisfied of the ne­
cessity of the payment, shall make an order accordingly, designating the
amount and giving the time within which it shall be paid ; and if the
money be not paid within the time allowed, an action may be maintained
by the executor or administrator on the bond.-Codc of 1881, § 1580. 
§ 1592. (1094.] Settlement of account and distribution. Upon the
settlement of the account of the executor or administrator or at any sub­ 
sequent time, upon the application of the executor or administrator, or
any heir, devisee or legatee, the court shall proceed to distribute the resi­
due of the estate among the persons who are by law entitled.-Code of 
1881, § 1581.
§ 1593. (1095.] Court to name person and portion he shall receive. 
In the decree the court shall name the person and the portion or part to
which each shall be entitled ; and such persons shall have the right to de­
mand and recover their respective shares from the executor or administra­
tor, or any person having the same in possession.e--cese of 1881, ~ 1582. 
Balch v. Smith, 30 P., 648; 4 W., 497. 
§ 1594. (1096.]Executor or interested party to petition for decree
-Notice. The decree may be made on the application of the executor
or administrator, or of any person interested in the estate, and shall only
be made after notice has been given in the manner required in regard to 
an application for the sale of land by an executor or administrator. The
court may order such further notice to be given as it may deem proper. 
-Code of 1881, § 1583. · · 
§ 1595._ [1097.] Partition made, how and when. When the estate,
real or personal, assigned to two or more heirs, devisees or legatees, shall
be in common and undivided, and the respective shares shall not be sepa­
rated and distinguished, partition and distribution may be made by three 
disinterested persons, to be appointed commissioners for that purpose by
the probate court, who shall be duly sworn to the faithful discharge of
their duties, and the court shall issue a warrant to them for that purpose.
-Code of 1881, § 1584. 
§ 1596. [1098.] Property in different counties to be separately
· divided. If the real estate be in different counties, the probate court 
may, if it shall judge proper, appoint different commissioners for each
county ; and in such case the estate in each county shall be divided sepa­
rately, as if there were no other estate to be divided, but the commission­
ers first appointed shall, unless otherwise directed by the probate court,
make division of such real estate wherever situated within the territory.
-Code of 1881, § 1585. · 
§ 1597. [1099.] Partition may be ordered after notice. Such par-.
tition and distribution may be ordered on the petition of any of the per­
sons interested in the estate; but before any partition shall be ordered as
directed in this act, notice shall be given to all persons ·interested who 
shall reside in this territory or to their guardians and to agents, attorneys
or guardians, if there be any in this territory, of such as reside out of the
territory, either personally or by public notice, as the probate court may
direct-Code of 1881, § 1586. 
-~ 1598. [r roo.] ABBignee of shares may take. Partition of the real
estate may be made as provided in this act, although some of the original
heirs or devisees may have conveyed their shares to other persons, and 
such shares shall be assigned to the person holding the same, in the same
manner as they otherwise would have been to such heirs or devisees.-
Code of 1881, 1587. . 
§ 1599. [1101.] Shares to be separate unless by consent. The sev­
eral shares in the real and personal estate shall be set out to each individ­
ual in proportion to his right, by such metes, bounds and descriptions that 
the same may be easily distinguished, unless two or more of the parties
shall consent to have their shares set out so as to be held by them in com-
mon and undivided.-Code of 1881, § 1588. · 
§ 1600. [1102.] Whole estate may be given to one party if he pay
others. When any such real estate cannot be divided without prejudice
or inconvenience to the owners, the probate court may assign the whole to
one or more of the parties entitled to share therein, who will accept it, pro-.
viding the party so accepting the whole shall pay to the other parties in­
terested their just proportion of the true value thereof, or secure the same
to their satisfaction, and the true value of the estate shall be ascertained
by the commissioners appointed by probate court, and sworn for that pur­ 
pose.-Code of 1881, § 1589. 
§ 1601. [1103.] Owelty when shares unequal. When any tract of
land or tenement shall be of greater value than either party's share of the 
estate to be divided, and cannot be divided without injury to the same, it 
may be set off by the commissioners appointed to make partition, to either
of the parties who will accept it, giving preference as prescribed in the
preceding sections ; providing the party so accepting shall pay or secure
to one or more of the others, such sums as the commissioners shall award
to make the- partition equal, and the commissioners shall make their award
accordingly ; but such partition shall not be established by the court until
the sums so awarded shall be paid to the parties entitled to the same, or
secured to their satisfaction.-Code of 1881, § 1590. 
§ 16o2. [1104.] When estate cannot be divided it may be sold. 
When it cannot be otherwise fairly divided, the whole or any part of the
estate, real or personal, may be recommended by the commissioners to be
sold ; and if the report be confirmed, the court may order a sale by the ex­
ecutor or administrator, and distribute the proceeds.-Code of 1881, § 1591. 
§ 16o3. [1105.] Estate in common of testator must flrst be parti­
tioned. When partition of real estate among heirs or devisees shall be
required, and such real estate shall be undivided and in common with the 
real estate of any other person, the commissioners shall first divide and
. sever the estate of the deceased from the estate with which it lies in com­ 
mon; and such division so made and established by the probate court shall
be binding upon all the persons interested.-Code of 1881, § 1592. 
§ 1604. [uo6.] Guardians, etc., to be appointed before partition. 
Before any partition shall be made, or any estate divided, as provided in
this act, guardians shall be appointed for all minors and insane persons
interested in the estate to be divided; and some discreet person shall be
appointed to act as agent for such parties as reside out of the territory,
and notice of the appointment of such agent shall be given to the com­
missioners in their warrant: and notice shall be-given to all persons inter­
ested in the partition, their guardians or agents, by the. commissioners, of
the time when they shall proceed to make partition.-Code of 1881, § 1593. 
§ 1605 .. [1107.] Report of commissioners-To be recorded. The
commissioners shall make a report of their proceedings in writing, and the
court may, for sufficient reasons, set aside such report and remit the same 
to the same commissioners or appoint others; and the report, when finally
accepted and established, shall be recorded in the records of the court, and
a certified copy thereof, under the seal of the court, shall be recorded in
the office of the county auditor of the county where the land lies.-Laws 
of 1891, p. 389, § 38. 
State v. Carey, 30 P., 729; 4 W., 424. 
~ 1606. [r ros.] When commissioners need not be appointed. 
When ·the probate court shall make a decree assigning the residue of any
estate to one or more persons entitled to the same, it shall not be necessary
to appoint commissioners to make partition or distribution of such estate,
unless the parties to whom the assignment shall have been decreed, or
some of them, shall request that such partition be made.-Code of 1881, 
§ 1595. 
§ 16o7. [r roo.] Advancements to be specified in order. All ques­
tions as to advancements made, or alleged to have been made by the de­ 
ceased to any heirs, may be heard and determined by the probate court,
and shall be specified in the decree assigning the estate, and in the warrant
to the commissioners, and the final decree of the probate court, or in case 
of appeal, of the district or supreme courts, shall be binding ori all parties
interested in the estate.-Code of 1881, § 1596. 
§ 1608. [r r ro.] Court to appoint agent for non-resident. When
any estate shall have been assigned by decree of the court, or distributed
by commissioners, as provided in this act, to any person residing out of
this territory, and having no agent therein, and it shall be necessary that
some person should be authorized to take possession and charge of the
same for the benefit of such absent person, the court may appoint an agent
for that purpose, and authorize him to take charge of such estate, as well
as to act for such absentee in the partition and distribution. -Code of 188 1 ~ 
§ 1597. 
§ 1609. [u11.] Agent to give bonds-Oompensation. Such agent
shall give a bond to the county in which such estate shall be situated, to 
be approved by the court, conditioned faithfully to manage and account
for such estate, before he shall be authorized to receive the same, and the
court appointing such agent may allow a reasonable sum out of the profits
of the estate for his services and expenses.-Code of 1881, § 1598. 
§. 1610. [r 112.] If agentfail to sell in one year court may. When
the estate shall have remained in the hands of the agent unclaimed for one
year, it shall be sold under order of the court, and the proceeds, deduct­ 
ing the expenses of the sale, to be allowed by the court, shall be paid into
the .county treasury. When the payment is made the agent shall take
triplicate receipts, one of which he shall file with the county auditor, and 
another with the probate court.-Code of 1881, § 1599. 
§ 16u. [r r 13.] Liability of agent on bond. The agent shall be lia-
. ble on his bond for the care and preservation of the estate while in his 
hands, and for the payment of the proceeds of sale as required by the
preceding section, and may be sued thereon by any person interested.­ 
Code of 1881, § 1600. 
§ 1612. (1114.] Payment of money on auditor's warrant. When
any person shall appear and claim the money paid into the treasury the 
court making the distribution, being first satisfied of his right, shall order
the payment of such money, and upon the presentation of a certified copy
of the order to the county auditor he shall draw his warrant on the county 
treasurer for the amount.-Laws of 1891, p. 390, § 39. 
§ 1613. (1115.] Decree of discharge on settlement of estate. 
When the estate has been fully' administered, and it shall have been
shown by the executor or administrator, by the production of satisfactory
vouchers, that he has paid all sums of money due from him, and delivered
up, under order of the court, all property of the estate to the persons entitled, the court shall make a decree discharging him from all liability to
be incurred thereafter.-Code of 1881, § 16o2. 
§ 1614. [1 u~.] Letters to be subsequently issued on discovery of
other estate. The final settlement of the estate shall not prevent a sub­ 
sequent issuance of letters of administration, should other property of the
estate be discovered, or it should become necessary and proper from any
cause that letters should be again issued.-Code of 18811 § 16o3. 
§ 1615. Clerk's fees in probate causes. [The following is a list of
clerk's fees chargeable in probate causes. See section 525 and page Io9.] 
CLERKS OF THE SUPREME AND SUPERIOR COURTS. 
1. For filing declaration, petition, plea, demurrer, affidavit, exhibit or other
paper required to be filed in any cause or procedure $ o IO 
2. Issuing capias, attachment, execution, certiorari, supersedeas, habeas
corpus, mandate, writ of error, and for any other original writ, and
noting return of the .same. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 oo 
3. Issuing order of sale, per folio of 100 words. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15 
4 .. Entering appearance of either party, personally or by attorney, charged
but once . 
5. For docketing appeals from justice of the peace. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
6. Docketing each cause, charged but once .
7. Swearing witnesses, each. : . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
8. Indorsing on sheriff's deed "presented and entered in book of levies," 
and certifying the same . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
9. Entering sheriff's return in book of levies, per folio . 
10. Entering judgment, recognizance, special rule, continuance, discontinu­
ance, retraxit, rule of reference, allowance of writ of habeas corpus,
confession of judgment, default or consent, rule or plea, notice of ap-
peal to supreme court, issue joined, motion, non-suit, report of ref-
erees, judgment upon any issue of .Iaw or fact or on any report of ref­
erees, appeals from infenor courts, appeals to higher courts, per folio. 
11. Taking affidavit without seal . 
12. Taking affidavit with seal .
13. [Stricken out in enrolled law.)
14. Issuing subpcena, one or more names . 
15. Approving bond, including justification.... . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
16. For certificate and seal .
17. Entering a declaration of intention to become a citizen of the United 
States, and for a certified copy of such entry under seal .
18. Entering the final admission of an alien to citizenship and for a certified 
copy thereof under seal . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 oo
19. Issuing letters of administration, letters testamentary or letters of guar­ 
dianship, and recording the same. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 oo 
20. Issuing commission to take disposition [deposition] , 1 oo 
21. Entering probate of will, decree of settlement of estate, order of distri­
bution, order appointing administrator, executor or guardian, and for
entering any other order in probate proceedings, per folio . 
22. Issuing notice of petition for letters of administration, letters of guar­
dianship, probate of will, notice of settlement of estate, or any other
notice of hearing in probate proceedings . 
23. For making copies of any notice, per folio .
24. Issuing warrants to appraise or divide an estate .
25. Issuing citation or other original writ in probate matters not herein pro- 
vided for .
26. F°:t:!~:t;:oet/ed r:~~~re.~ ~~- ~~ ~~~~ .i~ ~-r~-~~~~ -~~~~~~~~~~~-(~-~l_e_s~ 
27. For examining accounts, counting each two figures as one word, per folio
28. Entering any order in probate proceedings, per folio .
29. [Stricken out in enrolled law.]
JO. Examining inventory of appraisement or return of sale, per folio . 
-Laws of 1893, p. 421, 9 1. 
25
25
25 
IO 
50
15 
IO 
25 
50 
so 
50
50 
I 50 
15 
25 
15
50 
50 
IO 
IS 
15 
I5 
§ 1616. [1117 .] Executors may be required to convey under dece­
dent's contract. If any person who is bound by contract in writing to
convey any real property shall die before making the conveyance, the
superior court of the county in which such real estate or any portion
thereof is situate may make a decree authorizing and directing his execu­
tor or administrator to convey such real property to the person entitled 
thereto.-Laws of 1891, p. 390, § 40. 
Sander-Bowman Co. v. Yesler, 27 P., 268; 2 W., 429. Reese v. Murnan, 31 
P., rn27. 
§ 1617. [1118.] Petition and notice-Publication and service. On
filing and presentation of a petition of any person claiming to be entitled 
to such conveyance under such contract, setting forth the facts upon which
such claim is predicated, the court, or the judge thereof, shall make an
order appointing a time for hearing such petition, and shall also order
notice thereof, and of the time of the hearing, to be published four success­
ive weeks next before such hearing in such newspaper in the state as the
court shall designate; and in case such deceased person was an inhabitant
of this state at the time of his death, or died in this state, and in all other
cases in which an executor or administrator has been appointed in this
state the court shall further order that the notice be personally served upon
the executor or administrator, by delivery to him of a copy of the same,
together with a copy of the petition.-Laws of 1891, § 41. 
Sander-Bowman Co. v. Yesler, 2 W., 429; 27 P., 268. 
§ 1618. [1119.J Hearing on petition. At the time appointed for such
hearing, or at such other time as the same may be adjourned to, upon proof 
of the publication of the notice and of personal service thereof where per­
sonal service is required, the court shall proceed to a hearing, and all per­
sons interested as creditor, heirs, devisees or personal representatives may
appear and resist such petition by filing their objections, in writing, and
the court shall examine, on oath, the petitioners, and all witnesses who
may be produced on the hearing, by an interested party, for that pur­ 
pose.-Laws of 1891, p. 390, § 42. 
§ 1619. [u20.] Conveyance may be decreed. After a full hearing
upon such petition and objections, of the facts and circumstances of the 
claim, if the court is satisfied that the petitioner is entitled in equity to a
conveyance of the real estate described in the petition, or any part thereof,
or any interest therein, the court shall make a decree authorizing and di­
recting the execution and delivery of a conveyance to the petitioner.­ 
Code of 1881, § 626. 
§ 1620. [1121.] By whom executed. Such conveyance shall be ex­
ecuted by the executor or administrator of the estate of the deceased, if 
the deceased was a resident of or had his-place of abode at the time of his
death in this state, or if he died therein, or if an executor or administra­
tor has been appointed therein; but in such case no decree for conveyance
shall be made unless the executor or administrator shall have been served
with a copy of the said petition and the· notice provided for in section
[eleven hundred and seven] [elfi•en hundred and eighteen] [1617], at least
twenty days prior to the time appointed for the hearing.-Laws of 1891, 
p. 391, § 43· •
~ 1621. [1122.] Commissioner to convey if no executor-Extra 
notice. If the deceased died out of the state, and was not an inhabitant
thereof at the time of his death, and no executor or administrator shall
have been appointed in the state, such conveyance shall be executed by a
commissioner to be appointed by the court, in the decree, for that pur­
pose ; but in such case, in addition to the notice provided for in section
[eleven hundred and seven] [eleven hundred and eighteen] [1617], it shall
appear ro the satisfacticn of the court, at the hearing, that the executor or
administrator of such deceased duly appointed in another state, territory
or country, or his heirs or devisees, shall have had reasonable notice per­
sonally of the pendency of said petition, and of the time and place ap­
pointed for such hearing. And such foreign executor or administrator
shall have the same right to file objections and resist the claim of the peti­
tioners as an executor or administrator appointed under the laws of this
state would have ; and it shall not be necessary in such case, that an ad­
ministration of the estate of the deceased be had in the state to authorize
the decree of conveyance prayed for.--Laws of 1891, p. 391, § 44. 
§ 1622. [n23.] Conveyance under decree. A conveyance executed
under the provisions of this chapter shall so refer to the decree authoriz­ 
ing the conveyance that the same may be readily found, but need not re­
cite the record in the case generally, and the conveyance made in pursu­
ance of a decree shall pass to the grantee all the estate, right, title and in­
terest contracted to be coveyed by the deceased, as fully as if the contract­
ing party himself were still living and executed the conveyance in pursu­
ance of such contract.-Code of 1881, § 629. 
§ 1623. [n24.] Appeal from decree-Decree to be recorded with
deed. Any party interested may appeal therefrom to the supreme court, 
in the same manner as appeals are taken and prosecuted from final decrees 
or judgments in equity causes; but if no appeal be taken from such de­
cree within the time limited therefor, or if such decree be affirmed on ap­
peal, it shall be the duty of the executor, administrator or commissioner
to execute and deliver the conveyance according to the directions contained
in the decree; and a certified copy of the decree shall be recorded with the
deed in the office of the auditor of the county .where the lands lie, and
shall be conclusive evidence of the correctness of the proceedings and of
the authority of the executor, administrator or commissioner to make
.such.conveyance.-Laws of 1891, p. 391, § 45. 
§ 1624. (1125.] Decree gives right of possession, etc. A copy of
the decree for conveyance made by the court and duly certified and re­
-corded in the office of the auditor of the county wherein the land is situ­
ate, shall, after affirmance upon appeal, or after expiration of the time for
taking an appeal in case no appeal be taken, give to the person entitled to
the conveyance a right to the immediate possession of the land contracted
for, and of holding the same according to the terms of the intended con­
veyance, in like manner and with like effect as if they had been conveyed
in pursuance of the decree.-Laws of 1891, p. 392, § 46. · 
§ 1625. (1126.] Representatives of deceased person entitled to 
,conveyance. If the person to whom the conveyance was to be made
.shall die before the commencement of the proceedings according to the 
provisions of this chapter, or before the completion of the conveyance,
any person who would have been entitled to the conveyance under him, as
heir, devisee or otherwise, in case the conveyance had been made accord­
ing to the terms of the contract, or the executor or administrator of such
deceased person, for the benefit of persons entitled, may commence such
proceedings, or prosecute the same if already commenced; and the con­
veyance shall be so made as to vest the estate in the persons who would
have been entitled to it, or in the executor or administrator for their bene­ 
fit.-Laws of 1891, p. 392, § 47·
§ 1626. [ 11 27.] Depositions may be read on the hearing. The tes­ 
timony of witnesses in support of the claim of the petitioner may be
taken by deposition whenever the deposition of such witnesses might be
taken to be used in the trial of a civil action; but notice of the time and
place of taking such deposition shall be published by the petitioner, in
the paper required to be designated by section [ eleven hundred and seven]
.[eleven hundred and eighteen] (1617], for three successive weeks prior to
taking the same, which notice shall also state the name of the officer be­
fore whom the deposition is to be taken, and the name(s] of the witnesses
whose testimony is proposed to be taken at such time and place, and shall
also be served personally in all cases wherein personal service of the no­
tice is required by the provisions of section [eleven hundred and seven]
[elei•en hundred and eighteen] (1617]. Any party interested in the estate
may appear and cross-examine such witnesses, and the manner of exam­
ination and form of such deposition shall be in conformity with the
statute regulating depositions of witnesses in civil actions. Any party in­
terested in the estate, and resisting the claim of the petitioner, may, after
filing his objections, .take the testimony of witnesses in his behalf in like 
manner as in civil actions.-Laws of 1891, p. 392, § 48. 
§ r627. [1128.] Court may appoint guardian-When. The pro­
bate court of each county, when it shall become necessary, may appoint 
guardians to minors resident in said county, who have no guardian ap­
pointed by will; or who may reside out of the territory, having estate
within the county.-Code ef 1881, § 16o4. 
§ 1628. [1129.] When court shall or when minor may appoint
guardian-Who disqualified. If the minor is under fourteen years of
age, the judge may nominate and appoint his guardian; if said minor be
over fourteen years of age, be or she may nominate the guardian, who, if
approved by the probate court, shall be appointed accordingly: Provided,
That no judicial officer, excepting justice of the peace, no person of un­
sound mind or a party convicted of felony, or a misdemeanor involving
moral turpitude, shall be appointed guardian, and when a guardian shall
incur either of the foregoing disabilities, he shall be displaced. If a guar­
dian becomes probate judge, the district court of the proper county or
district shall appoint his successor.--Code of 1881, § 1605. 
§ 1629. [II30.] Court must approve-May appoint if minor neg­
lects to do so. If the guardian nominated by the minor be not approved
by the judge, or if the minor shall reside out of the territory, or if, after 
being duly cited by the court, he shall neglect for ten days to nominate a
suitable person, the court may appoint the guardian in the same manner
as if the minor were under the age of fourteen years.· =Code ef 188 r , 
§ 1606. 
§ 1630. [n31.] Good cause must be shown for removal. When a
guardian has been appointed for any minor under the age of fourteen, 
such guardian shall not be removed when such minor arrives at the age
of fourteen, except for good cause shown.-Code of 1881, § 16o7. 
§ 1631. [u32.] Father or mother may be guardian if competent. 
The father of the minor if living, and in case of his decease, the mother,
being themselves respectively competent to transact their own business,
shall be entitled to the guardianship of a minor.-Code of 1881, § 16o8. 
§ 1632. [1133.] If no parents, guardian to have full custody. If
the minor have no father or mother living, and competent to have the cus­
tody and care of the education of such minor, the guardian so appointed 
shall have the custody and tuition of his ward.-Code of 1881, § 1609. 
§ 1633. [1134.] Guardianship ceases when minor becomes of age
or marries. Every guardian appointed as aforesaid shall have the cus­
tody and tuition of the minor, and the care and management of the estate
of such minor, except as hereinafter provided, until he or she shall have 
attained the age of majority ; and males shall be deemed of full and legal
age when they shall be twenty-one years old, and females shall be deemed
of full and legal age when they shall be eighteen years old, or at any age
under eighteen, when, with the consent of the parent, or guardian, or
other person under whose care or government they may be, they shall have
been lawfully married.-Code of 1881, § 1610. 
§ 1634. [1135.] Guardian may prosecute for ward. Guardians, by
virtue of their office as such, shall be allowed in all cases to prosecute and
defend for their wards.-Code of 188i, § 16u. 
§ 1635. [1136.] Guardian's bond-Condition of. The probate court
shall take of each guardian appointed under this act [a] bond with ap­
proved security, payable to the territory of Washington, in a sum double 
. the amount of the minor's estate, real and personal, conditioned as follows:
The condition of this obligation is such, that if the above bound A B, 
who has been appointed guardian for C D, shall faithfully discharge the
office and trust of such guardian according to law, and shall render a fair
and just account of his said guardianship to the probate court for the 
county of , from time to time, as he shall thereto be required by
said court, and comply with all orders of said court, lawfully made, rela­ 
tive to the goods, chattels and moneys of such minor, and render and pay
to such minor all moneys, goods and chattels, title-papers and effects which
may come into the hands or possession of such guardian belonging to such
minor, when such minor shall thereto be entitled, or to any subsequent
guardian, should such court so direct, this obligation shall be void, or
otherwise to remain in full force and virtue, which bond shall be for the
use of such minor, and shall not become void upon the first recovery, but
may be put in suit from time to time against all, or any one or more of the
obligors, in the name and [for] the use and benefit of any person entitled
by a breach thereof, until the whole penalty shall be recovered thereon.­
Code of 1881, § 1612. 
§ 1636. [1137.] Guardian must account to court. Probate courts
shall have power in their respective counties, with or without previous 
complaint, by an order duly made and served, to oblige all guardians of
minors, from time to time, to render their respective accounts, upon oath,
touching their guardianship, to said courts for adjustment, and shall have
power to compel such guardian to give supplementary security, whenever
it shall judge proper, and in default thereof to remove such guardian.­ 
Code of 1881, § 1613. 
§ 1637. [1138.] Duties of guardian. It shall be the duty of every
guardian of any minor : 
1. To make out and file, within three months after his appointment, a
full inventory, verified by oath, of the real and personal estate of his ward,
with the value of the same ; and failing so to do, it shall be the duty of
the court to remove him and appoint a successor. 
2. To manage the estate for the best interest of his ward.
3. To render, on oath, to the proper court, an account of his receipts 
and expenditures as such guardian, verified by [suck] vouchers or proof,
at least once in every two years, or whenever cited so to do; he shall re­
ceive no allowance for services, and be liable to said ward on his bond, for
ten per cent. in damages on the whole amount of estate, both real and per­
sonal, in his hands belonging to such ward. 
4. At the expiration of his trust, fully to account for and pay over to
the proper person, all the estate of said ward remaining in his hands. 
5. To pay all just debts due from such ward out of the estate in his
hands, and collect all debts due such ward, and in case of doubtful debts,
to compound the same, and appear for and defend or cause to be defended,
all suits against such ward. 
6. When any ward has no father or mother, or such father or mother is
unable, or fails to educate such ward, it shall be the duty of his guardian
to provide for him such education as the amount of his estate may justify. 
-Code of 1881, § 1614. 
§ 1638. [1139.] Court may order change of investments. The pro­
bate court, may, on the application of a guardian or any other person, said
guardian having due written notice thereof, order and decree any change to
be made in the investment of the estate of any ward that may to such 
court seem advantageous to such estate.-Cod~ of 1881, § 1615. 
§ 1639. [1140.] Guardian when removed, must deliver all proper­
ties to successor-Penalty. The probate court in all cases· shall have
power to remove guardians for good and sufficient reasons, which shall be
entered of record, and to appoint others in their place or in the place of
those who may die, who shall give bond and security for the faithful dis­
charge of their duties as heretofore prescribed in this act; and when any
guardian shall be removed, or die, and a successor be appointed, the court
shall have power to compel such guardian to deliver up to such successor
all goods, chattels, moneys, title-papers, or other effects belonging to such 
minor which may be in the possession of such guardian so removed, or of
the executors or administrators of a deceased guardian, or of any other
person or persons who have the same, and upon failure, to commit the
party offending to prison, until he, she or they comply with the order of
the court.-Code of 1881, § 1616. 
§ 1640. [1141.] Statutes relative to executors' bonds apply to
guardians. All the provisions of chapter 101 [n3] relative to bonds given
by executors and administrators, shall apply to bonds taken of guardians. 
-Code of 1881, ~ 1617.
~ 1641. [u42.] Duties of testamentary guardian same as if ap­ 
pomted. The father of every legitimate child, who is a minor, may, by
his last will in writing, appoint a guardian or guardians for his minor child­
ren, whether born at the time of making such will or afterwards, to con­
tinue during the minority of such child, or for any less time, and every
such testamentary guardian shall give bond in like manner and with like
condition as hereinbefore required, and he shall have the same powers and
perform the same duties with regard to the person and estate of the ward 
as a guardian appointed as aforesaid.-Code of 1881, § 1618. 
§ 1642. [1143.] Appointment of guardians ad litem not affected. 
Nothing contained in this act shall affect or impair the power of any court 
to appoint a guardian to defend the interests of any minor interested in
any suit or matter pending therein, or to commence and prosecute any
suit in his behalf.-Code of 1881, § 1619. 
§ 1643. (1144.] Court may order estate sold. Whenever necessary
for the education, support or payment of the just debts of any minor, or
for the discharge of any liens on the real estate of such minor, or when­ 
ever the real estate of such minor is suffering unavoidable waste, or a bet­
ter investment of the value thereof can be made, the probate court may,
on the application of such guardian, order the same or a part thereof to 
be sold.-Code of 1881. § 1620. 
§ 1644. (1145.] Petition for sale to be verified by guardian-Con­
tents of. Such application shall be by petition, verified by the oath of the·
guardian, and shall substantially set forth: 
1. The value and character of all personal estate belonging to such ward
that has come to the knowledge or possession of such guardian. 
2. The disposition made of such personal estate.
3. The amount and condition of the ward's personal estate, if any, 
dependent upon the settlement of any estate, or the execution of any
trust. 
4. The annual value of the real estate of the ward.
5. The amount of rent received and the application thereof.
6. The proposed manner of re-investing the proceeds of the sale, if 
asked for that purpose.
7. Each item of indebtedness, or the amount and character of the lien, 
if the sale is prayed for the liquidation thereof.
8. The age of the ward, where and with whom residing.
9. All other facts connected with the estate and condition of the ward 
necessary to enable the court fully to understand the same. If there is 110 
personal estate belonging to such ward, in possession or expectancy, and
none has come into the hands of such guardian, and no rents have been
received, the fact shall be stated in the application.-Code of 1881, § 1621. 
Brazee v. Schofield, 2 W. T., 209; 3 P., 265. 
§ 1645. (1146.] Court may authorize sale. If it shall appear to the
court from such petition and from the hearing thereon, that it is necessary, 
or would be beneficial to the ward that such real estate or some part of it
should be sold, the court may authorize the said guardian to sell the same
at public sale, on the same terms and notice required for sales of real estate
by executors and administrators.-Code of 1881, § ·1622. 
§ 1646. (1147.] Same as executor's sale. All the provisions of the chapter regulating sales by executors and administrators shall be applica­ 
ble to sales made by guardians.-Code of 1881, § 1623 . 
. § 1647. (1148.] Guardian shall report sale. At the term of the
court next after such sale, such guardian shall make report thereof to such 
. court, and produce the proceeds of such sale, and the notes or obligations
or other securities taken to secure the payment of the purchase money.­
Code of 1881, § 1624. 
§ 1648. (1149.] Sales to be confirmed. The court in confirming such
sale and directing a conveyance, shall be governed by the law regulating 
the confirming of sales of real estate made by executors or administrators,
and the making of conveyances on such sales.-Code of 1881, § 1625. 
§ 1649. [ 1150.] Guardian m&y consent to partition. · The guardian
of any minor may join in and assent to the partition of the real estate
of such minor, under the direction of the court, upon a petition for parti­ 
tion.""'.""""Code of 1881, § 1626. 
§ 1650. [u51.] Compensation of guardians. Every guardian shall
be allowed by the court, on settling his accounts, the amount of all reason­ 
able expenses incurred in the execution of his trust, and also such com­
pensation for his services as the court sha1l deem reasonable. -Code of 
1881, § 1627. 
§ 1651. [11_52.] Proceedings in case of non-residents. When the
guardian and ward are both non-residents, and the ward is entitled to 
property in this territory, which may be removed to another state or terri­
tory, without conflict to any restriction or limitation thereupon, or impair­
ing the right of the ward thereto, such property may be removed to the 
state or territory in which such ward may reside, upon the application of
the guardian to the judge of the probate court of the county in which the
estate of the ward, or the principal part thereof, may be, in the manner
following: The guardian so applying must produce a transcript from the
records of a court of competent jurisdiction, certified according to the laws 
of this territory, showing his appointment as guardian of the ward in the
state or territory in which he and the said ward reside; that he has qualified 
as such according to the laws thereof, and given bond, with ~ureties, for
the performance of his trust; and must also give thirty days' notice to the
resident executor, administrator, guardian, agent or trustee, if there be such,
of the applications. Thereupon, if no objection be made, or if no good
cause be shown to the contrary, the judge of the probate court.shall make
an order granting such guardian leave to remove the property of said ward
to the state or territory in which he or she may reside; which order shall
be full and complete authority to said guardian to sue for and receive the
same in his own name, for the use and benefit of said ward.-Code of 1881, 
§ 1628. 
Ong v. Whipple, 3 W. T. 233, 3 P. 898. 
§1652. [1153.] Sureties discharged as on executor's bond. Sureties
in the bond of any guardian may be discharged from liability therein, 
under the same rule and regulation prescribed for the discharge of the
sureties in the bond of executors and administrators, and the provisions of
this act regulating the same shall apply to guardians and guardians' bonds
and sureties.-Code of ~881, § 1629. 
§ 1653. [1154.] Guardians for persons of unsound mind. The
several probate courts, in their respective counties in this territory, shall 
have power to appoint guardians to take the care, custody and manage-
,ment of all idiots, insane persons and all who are incapable of conducting 
their own affairs; and of their estates, real and personal; the maintenance
of themselves and families, and the education of their children.-Code of 
1881, § 1631. . .
§ 1654. [1155.] Guardian to take charge of estate. If it be found 
by the court that the person so brought before the court, is of unsound
mind and incapable of managing his own affairs, the court shall appoint
a guardian for the estate of such insane person.-Codeof 1881, § 1635. 
§ 1655. [1156.] Person falsely alleging insanity must pay costs. 
If the person alleged to be insane shall be discharged and it shall be
thought by the court that there were no grounds for such impression of
insanity, then the costs shall be paid by the person at whose instance the
proceeding was had, and execution may issue for the same.-Codeef 1881, 
§ 1637. 
§ 1656. [1157.] Guardian must give bond. Every such guardian
so appointed, shall, before entering upon the duties assigned him, enter 
into [a] bond to the board of county commissioners in such sum, and with
such security as the court shall approve, conditioned that he will take proper
care of such insane person, and manage and minister his effects to the
best advantage, according to law; and that he will faithfully discharge all
duties as such guardian ·which may by law, or by the order, sentence or
decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, devolve upon him; which
bond shall be filed in the office of the probate court ; a copy thereof, duly
certified, shall be evidence in all respects as the original.-Code of 1881, 
§ 1638.
§ 1657. [1158.] Notice of appointment published within twenty 
days. It shall be the duty of f!very such guardian, within twenty days
after liis appointment, to cause notice thereof to be published in some
newspaper printed in this territory, or otherwise publish such notice at
such time and place, and in such manner as the court shall decide. -Code 
o/ 1881, § 1639.
§ 1658. [1159.] Guardian has charge of ward's estate. It shall be 
the duty of such guardian to collect and take into his possession the
goods, chattels, moneys, effects and other evidences of debt, and all writ­
ings touching the estate, real and personal, of the person under his guard­
ianship.-Code of 1881, § 1640. 
§ 1659. [116o.] Guardian to fl.le inventory within forty days. 
Within forty days after his appointment, such guardian shall make out
and file in the office of the probate court by which he was appointed, a
just and true inventory of the real and personal estate of his ward, stat­
ing the income and profits thereof, and the debts, credits and effects, as
the same shall have come to his knowledge. And if, after having filed
such inventory, it shall be found thatthere is other property belongingto
said estate, it shall be the duty of such guardian to make out and file an 
additional inventory, containing a just and full account of the same from
time to time, as the same may be discovered.-Code of 1881, § 1641. 
§ 1660. [u61.] Inventory to be attested by two witnesses. All 
such. inventories shall be made in the presence of, and attested by two
credible witnesses in the neighborhood, and shall be verified by the oath
of the guardian.-Code of 1881, § 1642. 
§ 1661. [u62.] Guardian .to prosecute and defend for ward. It 
shall be the duty of every such guardian to prosecute all . actions com­
menced at the time of his appointment, or thereafter, to be commenced
by, or on account of his ward, and to defend all actions which may be
brought against such ward.-Code of 1881, § 1643. 
§ 1662. ru63.] Guardian to collect and pay debts. Every guard­
ian is authorized and required to collect all debts due to his ward, and give
acquittances and discharges thereof, and adjust, settle and pay all de­
mands due and becoming due from his ward, so far as his estate and .
effects will extend.-Code of 1881, § 1644. 
§ 166 3. [ 1 164.] Court to provide for person, property, and family. 
The probate court shall have power to make orders for the restraint, sup­
port and safe-keeping of such person, for the management. of his estate,
and the support and maintenance of his family, and education of his
children, out of the proceeds of his estate; to set apart and reserve, for the
use of such family, all property, real or personal, not necessary to be sold
for the payment of debts, and to let, sell or mortgage any part of such
estate, real or personal, when necessary for the payment of debts, the
maintenance of such insane person or his family, or the education of his
children.-Code of 1881, §1645. 
§1664. [1165.] When personal estate insufficient, real may be
mortgaged, etc. Whenever the personal estate of such person shall be
found to be insufficient to meet the foregoing requisitions, it shall be the
duty of such guardian to lay the same before the probate court by whom 
he was appointed, setting forth the particulars relative to the estate, real
and personal, of such person, and the debts by him owing, accompanied by
a correct and true account of his doings therewith ; whereupon it shall be the
duty of such court to make an order directing the mortgage, lease, or sale
at his discretion, of the whole or such part of the real estate as may be
necessary.-Code of 1881, § 1646. 
§ 1665. [u66.] Terms of mortgage or sale. The court making such
order shall direct the time and terms of such sale, mortgage, or lease of 
such estate, and the manner in which the proceeds shall be applied; and
shall give due notice thereof together with a full description of the property
to be thus disposed of, at which time and place it shall be the duty of the
guardian to execute the order of said court, and to make a full report of
his doings therein, which report shall be accompanied by the affidavit of
the guardian verifying the report, and stating that such guardian did not
directly or indirectly become the purchaser thereof; or if otherwise dis­
posed of, that he is not directly or indirectly interested personally in .the
agreement.-Code o/ 1881, § 1647. 
§ 1666. [u67.] Written instruments by guardian valid. When
any such sale, mortgage or lease, is approved by the court ordering the 
same, as having been performed according to law, and not under such cir­
cumstanees as to operate prejudicial to the interest of such ward, it shall
be the duty of the guardian to execute a deed, mortgage or other instru- 
ment of writing, which shall be as valid and effective in law as if executed
by such ward when of sound mind and discretion.-Code ef 1881, § 1648. 
§ 1667. [ r r 68.] Proceedings set &side when court disapproves. If 
such proceedings be disapproved by said court, the court may set them
aside and proceed in like manner as if no sale had been made.-Code of 
1881, § 1649. ' 
§ 16.68. (u69.] Guardian to account when required. Every
guardian as often as required by the court appointing him, shall render a 
true and perfect account of his guardianship.-Code ef 1881, § 1650. 
§ 1669. [ 1170.] Process to be served on guardian. No such ward
shall be held to bail, or his body be taken in execution, in any civil action ;
and in all actions commenced against him the process shall be served
upon bis guardian, and in all judgments against such ward (or his guard­
ian as such) the execution shall be against the property of the ward only,
and in no case against his body, nor against that of his guardian, nor the
property of said guardian, unless he shall have rendered himself liable
thereunto.-Code of 1881, § 1651. 
§ 1670. [1171.] Proceedings if ward recover his reason. When­
ever the court shall receive information that such ward has recovered his 
reason, he shall immediately inquire into the facts, and if he finds that
such ward is of sound mind, he shall forthwith discharge such person from
care and custody; and the guardian shall immediately settle his accounts
and restore to such person all things remaining in his hands belonging or
appertaining to such ward.-Codeo/ 1881, ~ 1652. 
§ 1671. (1172.] Proceedings if ward die. In case of the death of
any such ward while under guardianship, the power of the guardian shall
cease, and the estate descend and be disposed of in the same manner as if
said ward had been of sound mind ; the guardian shall immediately settle
his accounts and deliver the estate and the effects of his ward to his legal
representatives.-Code ef 1881, § 1656. 
§ 1672. (1173.] Guardian m&y be removed for neglect. The sev­
eral probate courts shall have the power to remove any such guardian at
any time, for neglect of duty, mismanagement, or of disobedience to any 
lawful order, and appoint another in his place, whereupon such guardian
shall immediately settle his account and render to his successor the estate
and effects of his ward.-Code of 1881, § 1657. 
ESTATES OF NON-RESIDENT PERSONS OF UNSOUND MIND. 
i 1673. Foreign guardian on filing letters and
bond has same rights as domestic. 
i 1674- Creditor may apply for letters if for­
eign guardian neglect for ninety days. 
I 1675. Appointment on petition -Ancillary
guardian. 
~ 1676. Four weeks notice to creditors. 
i 1677. Duties of guardian. 
CHAPTER CXXV. 
! 1678. Husband or wife to join guardian in
conveyance. 
I 1679. Actions to compel husband or wife'to
join in conveyance-Consolidation of
-Sales and distribution of proceeds. 
I 16So. Delivery of money and property to for­
eign guardian. 
i 1681. Discharge of sureties. 
i 1682. Repealing and emergency clause. 
§ 1673. Foreign guardian on fl.ling letters and bond h&i same
rights &B domestic. Whenever any insane person or person non compos 
mmtis who resides without this state, and who shall have no guardian
within the state, or, if he or she has a foreign guardian, the said guardian
may file an authenticated copy of his letters of guardianship in the office
of the clerk of the superior court of any county in this state in which
there may be property of his ward, and upon the filing of such authenti­
cated copy of his letters of guardianship as aforesaid, the court shall order
him to enter into a good and sufficient bond, in such sum as the court may
require, conditioned and subject to all the provisions of law concerning
the bonds .of guardians of minors in this state, with sufficient freehold
surety resident in said county. After said bond is duly approved by the
court said guardian shall be considered for all purposes as a domestic guar­
dian. -Laws of 1893, p. 286, § 1. 
§ 1674. Creditor may apply for letters, if foreign guardian neg­
lect for ninety days. Should the said foreign guardian fail to file a duly
authenticated copy of his said letters of guardianship and the bond re­
quired by section I of this act within ninety days after his appointment as
such foreign guardian, or within ninety days after such insane person or
person non compos mentis shall become the owner of any real estate or per­
sonal property within this state, or, should said insane person or person
mm compos mentis have no guardian without this state, any creditor or
other person interested in the property or estate of such insane person or 
person non compos mentis may apply by petition, to the superior court of
any county in this state where any of the real estate or personal property
of such insane person or person non compos mentis may be situated, for let­
ters of guardianship for the estate and property of such insane person or
person non compos mentis.-Laws of 1893, p. 287, § 2; 
§ 1675. Appointment on petition-Ancillary guardians. Upon
the hearing of such petition, on a day to be fixed by the court, and upon
proof of the insanity of such person, or that such person is non compos mentis,
the court· may appoint the petitioner or some other suitable person possess­ 
ing all of the qualifications necessary or requisite for the guardianship of a
minor of this state as such guardian, who, upon the filing and approval of
a bond as is provided herein for foreign guardians, shall be the duly con­
stituted guardian of the estate of such ward in this state: Provided, Noth­
ing herein shall annul the appointment of any ancillary guardians hereto­
fore appointed by any court of this state, which appointments are hereby
ratified, and all such ancillary guardians shall hereafter be subject to all 
the provisions of this act.-Laws of 1893, p. 287, § 3. 
§ 1676. Four weeks notice to creditors. It shall be the duty of the
guardian who has been appointed as hereinbefore provided, to cause to be 
published in a newspaper published in the county in which he was ap­
pointed, if any there be, and if there be no newspaper published in said
county then in a newspaper to be designated by the court, a notice to the
creditors of the said ward requiring them to present their claims, with the
necessary vouchers within a time to be fixed by the court, at a place of
residence or business of such guardian, to be specified in the notice; such
notice shall be published as often as the court shall deem necessary, not 
less than once a week for four successive weeks.-Laws of 1893, p. 287, 
§ 4.
§ 1677. Duties of guardian. It shall be the duty of every such 
guardian- 
1. To make and file within thirty days after his appointment a full in- 
ventory, verified by his oath, of all the real or personal property of such
ward, with the value of the same, and on failure so to do it shall be the
duty of the court to remove him and appoint a successor. 
2. To manage the personal and real estate of his said ward to the best
interest of said ward. 
3. To render under oath to the said court an account of his receipts and
expenditures as such guardian, verified by vouchers or proofs, at least
once in every two years, or whenever cited by the court to do so. On
failure to so account he shall be in contempt of court and subject to such
penalties as the court may fix. 
4. To pay all just debts due from said ward and collect all debts due
said ward by action or otherwise and in case of doubtful debts, under the
order of the court, to compound the same, and to appear for and defend or
cause to be defended all suits against said ward.-Lawsef 1893, p. 2881 § 5. 
§ 1678. Husband or wife to join guardian in conveyance. In
all cases where guardians have been or may hereafter be appointed for in­ 
sane persons or persons non compos mentis, under the provisions of this
act, and who own or may hereafter own community real estate, the hus­
band or wife of such insane person or person non compos mentis, under the
order of the court, may join with the guardian in the execution of deeds
or mortgages for the disposition or encumbrance of such estate, and the
guardian shall, upon application to the court for that purpose, be author­
ized to sell or mortgage the estate or interest of the said insane person or
person non compos mentis for the purpose of paying the debt or providing
for the support or maintenance of such ward or the wife of such ward or 
for the better investment of the proceeds of such estate.-Laws ef 1893, 
p. 288, § 6.
~ 1679. Actions to compel husband or wife to join in conveyance 
-Oonsolidation of-Sales, and distribution of proceeds. In all
cases where community debts exist and the husband or wife of an insane
person or person non compos mentis, under guardianship, shall fail or refuse 
for sixty days after an order of the court, to join the said guardian in a
sale or conveyance or mortgage of the said community property of the
said insane person or person non compos mentis, found necessary by the
court for the payment- of such community debts, any creditor may com­
mence his action by attachment against any such insane person or person 
non compos mentis, and the husband or wife of the said insane person or
person non compos mentis and the guardian provided for in this act: Pro­
vided, That any suit or suits which may have heretofore or may hereafter
be brought for the purpose of subjecting the property of such insane per­
son or person non compos mentis to the payment of the debts of such in­
sane person or person non compos men/is, shall be consolidated, and
in case the writs of attachment levied in such actions shall not have
been levied upon all community property of such insane person or person . 
non compos mentis, alias writs of attachment may issue and successive
levies may be made of them to cover and bring into court all of the prop­
erty of such insane person or person non compos mentis and the husband
or wife of either. Such action may be brought only in the court granting
the letters of guardianship, and writs of attachment may issue to any
county in this state where the said insane person or person nun compas 
men/is may have any property. All known creditors, whether secured by
mortgage or otherwise, shall be made parties to such action, and all
suits or actions brought for the purpose of enforcing any mortgage or lien 
shall be consolidated with said action. All creditors shall be made par­
ties to such action and the same shall be prosecuted for the benefit of all
creditors, whether they may be made parties or not, and the person so
bringing the action herein provided for shall share pro rata with all other
creditors, and upon the trial of such action the court may, upon proofs,
render such judgment as may be necessary for the protection of all par­
ties, and shall settle and decree the priorities between creditors. The 
. guardian may employ counsel in any such action, and the compensation
of such counsel shall be fixed by the court and taxed as a part of the cost
in such action. After judgment the court shall order the community
property of such insane person or person non compos mentis sold, and un­
der the order of sale in such action the separate property of such insane
person or person non compos mentis shall also be sold if the same shall be
found by the court to be necessary to pay the debts of such insane person
or person non compos mentis, and the proceeds of such sale shall be paid
into court for distribution according to the priorities as decreed by the
court, and any residue or overplus remaining in the court after paying all
debts found due shall be paid over to the guardian. This act shall not
suspend or abrogate the existing liens of any attachment, mortgage or
other lien, and all such liens shall merge into the judgment of the court
rendered in such action according to the priority of each. The court
may order all or such part of the community and separate property of the
said insane person or person of unsound mind, as it may deem necessary
for the payment of the judgment rendered, to be sold, and successive
sales may be made under such judgment until an amount sufficient to
pay such judgment is realized. All such sales shall be confirmed by the
court as in cases of mortgage or other sales, and the court may, if it deem
the amount bid at any sale inadequate, order a resale of any property sold
under said order . =Easus of 1893, p. 289, § 7. 
§ 1680. Delivery of money and property to foreign guardian. 
When it shall appear to the court that all the real and personal property
of such ward has been sold and the debts herein authorized to be paid'.
have been satisfied, and that there are moneys and property in the hands
of such guardian, upon the foreign guardian of such ward filing with the
clerk of said court a duly certified copy of his appointment as such guard­
ian. by a court of competent jurisdiction in any state or territory where
said ward resides with a copy of his bond, the sufficiency of which shall be
certified by the said court, the court shall order all money and property in
the bands of the said guardian in this state to be paid and turned over to
the said foreign guardian upon his receipting therefor, and upon the filing
of the said receipt _by the said guardian with the clerk of the court, said
guardian and his sureties shall be released from all liabilities for all money
and property so paid and turned over, and should said guardian fail or refuse
to pay or turn over such money or property as provided in said order, the
said foreign guardian is' hereby empowered as such guardian to sue for and 
receive the same.-Lqws of 1893, p. 290, § 8. 
§ 1681. Discharge of sureties. The sureties on the bond of any such
guardian appointed in this state may be discharged from all liability there­ 
under under the same rules and regulations as are prescribed for the dis­
charge of the sureties upon the bonds of executors and administrators in 
this state.-Laws of 1893, p. 291, § 9. 
§ 1682. Repealing and emergency clause. Sections 3071, 3072,
3073, 3074, 3075, 3076, 3077 and 3078 of Vol. I, Hill's Annotated Stat­ 
utes and Code of W asbington are hereby repealed, and inasmuch as there
is no statute providing for the appointment of guardians for non-resident
insane and persons non compos mentis, an emergency is hereby declared to
exist for the immediate taking effect of this act, therefore this act shall
take effect and be in force from and after its passage.-Laws of 1893, p.
291, § 10.-Approved March 11, 1893. 
PRIVATE SALES OF REAL PROPERTY BELONGING TO ESTATES. 
i 1689.
l 1683. Private sale of real property. 
i 1684. Sale must be necessary or assented to
by all parties. 
I 1ti8.5- Order of sale-Termit-Public or Pri- 
vate. 
i 1686. Notice of sale-Bids, etc. 
f 1687. Price must be ninety per cent, of value. 
j 1688. Note secured by mortgage. 
CHAPTER CXXVI. 
Administrator must make return of
proceedings- Intensted party may 
petition for hearing-Court may va­ 
cate sale.
Any interested person may object.
When court must confirm sale. 
Laws of executor's sales to govern. 
§ 1683. Private sale of real property. That real property belong­
ing to the estates of decedents, minors, idiots and insane persons may be
sold at private sale according to the following provisions.-Laws of 1893,
p. 85, § I. 
§ 1684. Sale must be necessary or assented to by all parties. 
That when the court is satisfied after a full bearing upon the petition and
an examination of the proof and allegations ef the parties interested, that
a sale of the whole or some portion of the real estate is necessary for any
of the causes specified in the laws of the state of Washington, or if such
sale be assented to by all the persons interested in a decedent's estate, an
order must be made to sell the whole or so much and such parts of the
real estate described in the petition as the court shall judge necessary or 
. beneficial at either public or private sale.-Laws of 1893, p. 85, § 2. 
§ 1685. Order of sale-Terms-Public or private. The order of
sale must describe the lands to be sold and the terms of sale, which may
be for cash or on a credit not exceeding three years, payable in gross or in
installments, and in such kind of money, with interest, as the court may 
direct. The land may be sold in one parcel or in subdivisions, as the ex­
ecutor, administrator or guardian shall judge the most beneficial to the
estate, unless the court otherwise specially directs. Every such sale must
be ordered to be made at public auction, unless in the opinion of the court
it would benefit the estate to sell the whole or some part of such real
estate at private sale. The court may, if the same is asked for in the pe­ 
tition, order or direct such real estate or any part thereof to be sold at
either public or private sale, as the executor, · adnlfoistrator or guardian
shall judge most beneficial for the estate. If the executor, administrator
or guardian objects or refuses to make a sale under the order and as
directed therein, he may be compelled to sell by order of the court made
on motion after due notice by any party interested.-Laws of 1893, p. 85, 
§ 3·
§ 1686. Notice of Sale-Bids, etc. When a sale of real estate is or­ 
dered to be made at private sale, notice of the same must be posted up in
three of the most public places in the county in which the land is situated, 
and published in a newspaper if there is one printed in the same county;
if none then in such paper as the court or a judge thereof may direct, for
two weeks ·successively next before the day on which the sale is to be
made, in which the lands and tenements to be sold must be described with
common certainty. The notice must state a day on or after which the
sale will be made, and a place where offers or bids will be received. The
day last referred to must be at least fifteen days from the first publication
of notice and the sale must not be made before that day, but must be made
within six months thereafter. The bids or offers must be in writing, and
may be left at the place designated in the notice, or delivered to the exec­
utor or administrator personally, or may be filed in the office of the clerk
of the court to which the return of sale must be made at any time after
the first publication of the notice and before the making of the sale. If 
it be shown that it will be for the best interests of the estate the court or
judge may, by an order, shorten the time of notice, which shall not, how­ 
ever, be less than one week, and may provide that the sale may be made
on or after a day less than fifteen, but not less than eight days from the
first publication of the notice of sale, and the sale may be made to corre­
spond with such order.-Laws of 1893. p. 86, § 4. 
Scott v. McNeal, 31 P., 873. This section is substantially the same as§ 1177, Vol. 
II., H. C. 
§ 1687. Price must be ninety per cent. of value. No sale of real
estate at private sale shall be confirmed by the court unless the sum offered
is at least ninety per cent. of the appraised value thereof, nor unless such
real property has been appraised within one year of the time of such sale.
If it has not been so appraised, or if the court is satisfied that the ap­
praisement is too high or low, appraisers may be appointed, and they must
make an appraisement thereof in the same manner as irt case of an original
appraisement of an estate; this may be done at any time before the sale
or the confirmation thereof.-Laws of 1893, p. 86, § 5. 
§ 1688. Notes secured by mortgage. The executor, administrator, or
guardian must, when the sale is made upon a credit, take the notes of the
purchaser for the purchase money with a mortgage on the property to 
secure their payment. -Laws of 1893, p. 87, § 6. 
§ 1689. Administrator must make return of proceedings-Inter­
ested party may petition for hearing;-Court may vacate sale. The
executor, administrator or guardian after making such sale of real property,
must make a return of his proceedings to the court, which must be filed in
the office of the clerk within ten days. A hearing upon the return of the
proceedings may be asked for by any interested party by petition, and
thereupon the court or judge must fix the day for a hearing, of which
notice of at least ten days must be given by the clerk, by notices posted in
three public places in the county or by publication in a newspaper, or
both, as the court or judge shall direct, and must briefly indicate the
land sold, the sum for which it was sold, and must refer to the return for
further particulars. Upon the hearing the court must examine the return
and witnesses in relation to the same, and if the proceedings were unfair
or the sum bid disproportionate to the value, and if it appear that a sum
exceeding such bid at least ten per cent., exclusive of the expenses of a
new sale, may be obtained, the court may vacate the sale and direct
another to be had, of which notice must be given and the sale in all re­
spects conducted as if no private sale had taken place. If an offer of ten 
per cent. more in amount than that named in the return be made to the
court in writing by a responsible person, it is in the discretion of the court
to accept such offer and confirm the sale to such person or to order a new 
sale.-Laws of 1893, p. 87, § 7. 
§ 1690. Any interested person may object. When the return of the
sale is made and filed, any person interested in the estate may file written
objections to the confirmation thereof and may be heard thereon when the 
return be heard by the 'court or judge, and may produce witnesses in sup­
port of his objections.-Laws of 1893, p. 87, § 8. 
§ 1691. When court must confirm sale. If it appears to the court
that the sale was legally made and fairly conducted, and that the sum bid
was not disproportionate to the value of the property sold, and that a
greater sum, as above specified, cannot be obtained, or if the increased
bid in section [1689] seven of this act be made and accepted by the court,
the court must make an order confirming the sale and directing convey­ 
ances to be executed.-Laws of 1893, p. 87, § 9.
§ 1692. Law of executor's sales to govern. That in all other 
respects such sale shall be governed by the laws of the State of Washing­
ton now in force governing the sale of real property belonging to such
estates.-Laws of 1893, p. 88, § 10. 
NOTE: This act concludes; "All acts and parts of acts conflicting in any man­
ner with this act are hereby repealed." 
CHAPTER 127. Descent of Real Estate. 
CHAPTER 128. Distribution of Personal Estate. 
~ 1693. Descent of real property-Rules of de­
scent. 
~ 1694. Rules for descent of community prop­
erty. 
e !695· Dower and courtesy-Separate prop­
erty of decedents. · 
~ 16g6. Surviv:orship in joint tenancies abol­
ished. 
~ 169;. Rights of illegitimate children.
~ 1698. Illegitimate £hi1d's property descends 
to mother. 
DESCENT AND DISTRIBUTION. 
CHAPTER CXXVII. 
DESCENT OF RRAL ESTATE. 
e 1699. Degree of kindred computed by civil
law. 
TITLE V. 
i 1700. Advancement considered part of in
herttance. 
f 1701. Proceedings in case of advancements. 
f 170:a. Advancement-of real estate. 
f 1703. What are deemed advancements. 
i 1704- Valuation of estate so advanced. 
i 1705. Death of pel"IIOn to whom advancement
has been made. 
i 17o6. Issue and real estate defined. 
i 1707. When inheritance takes place-Posthu­
mous children. 
§ 1693. [1480.*] .Descent of real property-Rules of descent. 
When any person shall die seized of any lands, tenements or heredita- 
ments, or any right thereto or entitled to any interest therein, in fee-sim­
ple, or for the life of another, not having devised the same, they shall
descend subject to the debts as follows :- 
1. If the decedent leaves a surviving husband or wife and only one
child, or the lawful issue of one child, in equal shares to the surviving
husband or wife and child, or issue of such child. If the decedent leaves
a surviving husband or wife, and more than one child living, or one child
living and the lawful issue of one or more deceased children, one-t.hird to 
the surviving husband or wife, and the remainder in equal shares to his
children and to the lawful issue of any deceased child by right of repre­
sentation. If there be no child of the decedent living at his death, the
remainder goes to all of his lineal descendants; and if all the descendants
are in the same degree of kindred to the decedent, they share equally,
otherwise they take according to the right of representation. _ 
2. If the decedent leaves no issue, the estate goes in equal shares to the
surviving husband or wife, and to the decedent's father and mother, if
both survive. If there be no father nor mother, then one-half goes in
equal shares to the brothers and sisters of the decedent and to the children
of any deceased brothers or sisters, by right of representation. If dece­
dent leaves no issue, nor husband, nor wife, the estate must go to his
father and mother. 
3. If there be no issue, nor husband, nor wife, nor father and mother,
nor either, then in equal shares to the brothers and sisters of the decedent,
and to the children of any deceased brother or sister, by right of repre- 
sentation. ·
4. If the decedent leaves a surviving husband or wife and no issue, and 
no father nor mother, nor brother, nor sister the whole estate goes to the
surviving husband or wife. 
5. If the decedent leaves no issue, nor husband, nor wife, and no father
nor mother, nor brother, nor sister, the estate must go to the next of kin,
in equal degree, excepting that when there are two or more collateral kin­
dred in equal degree, but claiming through different ancestors, those who
claimed through the nearest ancestor must be preferred to those claiming
through an ancestor more remote, however. 
6. If the decedent leaves several children or one child and the issue of
one or more other children, and any such surviving child dies under age,
and not having been married, all the estate that comes to the deceased
child by inheritance from such decedent descends in equal shares to the
other children of the same parent, and to the issue of any such other
children who are dead, by right of representation. · 
7. If at the death of such child, who dies under age, not having been
married, all the other children of his parents are also dead, and any of
them have left issue, the estate that came to such child by inheritance from
his parent, descends to the issue of all other children of the same parent ;
and if all the issue are in the same · degree of kindred to the child, they
share the estate equally, otherwise they take according to the right of
representation. 
8. If the decedent leaves no husband, wife or kindred, the estate es­
cheats to the territory, for the support of common schools, in the county
in which the decedent resided during lifetime, or where the estate may be 
situated.-Code ef 1881, § 3302. 
§ 1694. [1481.*] Rule for descent of community property. Upon
the death of either husband or wife, one-half of the community property
shall go to the survivor, subject to the community debts, and the other 
half shall be subject to the testamentary disposition of the deceased hus­
band or wife, subject also to the community debts. In case no testament­
ary disposition shall have been made by the deceased husband or wife of
his or her half of the community property, it shall descend equally to the
legitimate issue of bis, her or their bodies. If there be no issue of said
deceased living or none of their representatives living, then the said com­
munity property shall all pass to the survivors, to the exclusion of collat­
eral heirs, subject to the community debts, the family allowance and the
charges and expenses of administration.-Code of 1881, § 3303. 
Columbia National Bank v. Embree, 2 W., 331; 26 P., 2S'J. Ryan v. Ferguson,
3 W., 356; 28· P., 910. 
§ 1695. [1482.*] Dower and curtesy-Separate ~roperty of dece­
dents. The provisions of section [3303J [3302] [1693J as to the inher­ 
itance of the husband and wife from each other, apply only to the sepa­
rate property of the decedents ; and take the place of tenancy in dower
and tenancy by curtesy, which are hereby abolisbed.-Code of 1881, § 
3304. 
§ 1696. [1483.*] Survivorship in joint tenancies abolished. That
if partition be not made between joint tenants, the parts of those who die 
first shall not accrue to the survivors, but descend, or pass by devise, and
shall be subject to debts and other legal charges, or transmissible to ex­
ecutors or administrators, and be considered to every intent and purpose,
in the same view as if such deceased joint tenants had been tenants in
common ; Provided, That community property shall not be affected by this
act.--Laws of 1885-6, p. 165, § 1. 
§ 1697. [ 1484. *] Rights of illegitimate children. Every illegiti­
mate child shall be considered an heir to the person who shall in writing, 
signed in the presence of a competent witness, have acknowledged him­
self to be the father of such child, and shall in all cases be considered as
heir of his mother, and shall inherit his or her estate in whole or in part,
as the case may be, in the same manner as if he had been born in lawful
wedlock; but he shall not be allowed to claim, as representing his father
or mother, any part of the estate of his or her kindred, either lineal or
collateral, unless before bis death his parents shall have intermarried, and
his father, after such marriage, shall have acknowledged him as aforesaid,
and adopted him into his family, in which case such child and the legitimate
children shall be considered as brothers and sisters, and on the death of
either of them intestate, and without issue, the others shall inherit his
estate and he theirs, as heretofore provided in like manner, as if all the
children had been legitimate, saving to the father and mother respectively,
their rights in the estates of all the said children, as provided heretofore,
in like manner as if all had been legitimate.-Code of 1881, § 3305. 
§ 1698. [1485.*] Illegitimate child's property descends to mother. 
If any illegitimate child shall die intestate without lawful issue, his estate
shall descend to his mother, or in case of her decease, to her heirs· at law.
-Code of 1881, § 3306. 
§ 1699. [1486.*] Degree of kindred computed by civil law. The
degree of kindred shall be computed according to the rules of the civil law, 
and the kindred of the half blood shall inherit equally with those of the
whole blood in the same degree.-Code of 1881, § 3307. 
§ 1700. [1487.*] Advancement considered part of inheritance. 
Any estate, real or personal, that may have been given by the intestate in
bis lifetime as an advancement to any child, or other lineal descent[dan/]
shall be considered a part of the intestate's estate so far as regards the divis­
ion and distribution thereof among his issue, and shall be taken by such
child or other descendant, toward his share of the intestate's estate.-Code 
of 1881, § 3308. 
§ 1701. [1488.*] Proceedings in case of advancement. · If the
amount of such advancement there exceed the share of the heir so ad­
vanced, he shall be excluded from any further portion in the division and 
distribution of the estate, but be shall not be required to refund any part
of such advancement, and if the amount so received shall be less than bis·
share, he shall be entitled to so much more as will give him his full share
of the estate of the deceased.-Code of 1881, § 3309. 
§ 1702. [1489*.] Advancement of real estate. If any such advance­
ment shall have been made in real estate, the value thereof shall, for the
purposes of the preceding section, be considered as part of the real estate 
to be divided, and if it be in personal estate, and if in either case it shall
exceed the share of real or personal estate respectively, that would have
come to the heir so advanced, he shall not refund any part ofit, but shall
receive so much less out of the other part of the estate as will make the
whole share equal to those of the other heirs who are in the same degree
with him.-Code of 1881, § 3310. 
§ 1703. [1490*.] What are deemed advancements. All gifts and
grants shall be deemed to have been made in advancement, if expressed in 
the gift or grant to be so made, or if charged in writing by the intestate as
an advancement, or acknowledged in writing as such by the child or other
descendant.-Code of 1881, § 3311, 
§ 1704. [1491*.] Valuation of estate so advanced. If the value of
the estate so advanced shall be expressed in the conveyance, or in the
charge thereof made by the intestate, or in the acknowledgment by the 
party receiving it, it shall be considered of that value in the division and
distribution of the estate, otherwise it shall be estimated at its value when 
given.-Code of 1881, § 3312. 
§ 1705. [1492*.] Death of person to whom advancement has been
made. If any child or lineal descendant so advanced, shall die before the 
intestate, leaving issue, the advancement shall be taken into consideration
in the division and distribution of estate, and the amount thereof shall be 
allowed accordingly by the representatives of the heir so advanced, as so
much received towards their share of the estate in like manner as if the ad­
vancement has been made directly to them.-Code of 1881, § 3313. 
§ 1706. [1493*.] Issue and real estate defined. The word "issue,"
as used in this chapter includes all the lawful lineal descendants of the
ancestor, and the words "real estate," include all lands, tenements, and 
hereditaments, and all rights thereto, and all interests therein possessed
and claimed in fee simple, or for the life of a third person.-Code of 1881, 
§ 3314. 
§ 1707. [1494*.] When inheritance takes place.-Posthumous
children. Inheritance or succession by right ofrepresentation takes place
when the descendants of any deceased heh' take the same share or right in 
the estate of another that their parent would have taken if living. Post­
humous children are considered as living at the death of their parent. 
-Code of 188r, § 3315. 
CHAPTER CXXVIII. 
DISTRIBUTION OF PERSONAL ES1'AT:ES. 
i 17o8. Separate personal estate, how distributed. 
j! 1709. Advancement when widow and issue survive. 
§ 1708. [r495.*] Separate personal estate, how distributed. When
any person shall die possessed of any separate personal estate, or of any 
right or interest therein not lawfully disposed of by his last will, the same
shall be applied and distributed as follows:- 
1. The widow, if any, shall be allowed all articles of her apparel or
ornament, according to the degree and estate of her husband, and such
provisions and other necessaries for the use of herself and family under
her care, as shall be allowed and ordered in pursuance of the provisions of
any law; and this allowance shall be made as well when the widow re­
ceives the provision made for her in the will of her husband as when he
dies intestate ; 
2. The personal estate remaining after such allowance, shall be applied
to the payment of the debts of the deceased, with the charges for the
funeral and the settling of the estate; . 
3. The residue, if any, of the personal estate, shall be distributed
among the same persons as would be entitled to the real estate, by this act,
and in the same proportion as provided, excepting as herein further pro­
vided; 
4. If the intestate leave a husband and issue, the husband shall be entitled to one-half the residue ; 
5. If there be no issue, the husband shall be entitled to the whole of the
residue; 
6. If the intestate leave a widow and issue, the widow shall be entitled
to one-half of said residue; 
7. If there be no issue the widow shall be entitled to the whole of the
residue; 
8. If there be no husband, widow or kindred of the intestate, the said
personal estate shall escheat to the territory for the use of common schools
in the particular county in which the intestate shall have resided at time of
death.-Code of 1881, § 3316. 
§ 1709. [1496.*] Advancement where widow and issue survive. 
If the intestate leave a widow and issue, and any relation have received
an advancement from the intestate in his lifetime, the value. of such ad­
vancement shall not be taken into consideration in computing the one-half part to be assigned to the widow, 'Jut she shall be entitled to the one-half part only of the said residue, after deducting the value of the advance­
ment.-Code of 1881, § 3317. 
§ 1710. [1452.] Row civil actions are commenced. Civil actions in
the several justices' courts of this territory may be instituted either by
the voluntary appearance and agreement of the parties, by the service of
a summons, or by the service upon the defendant of a true copy of the 
complaint and notice, which notice shall be attached to the copy of the 
complaint and cite the defendant to be and appear before the justice at the
time and place therein specified, which shall not be less than six nor more
than twenty days from the date of filing the compiaint.-Code of 1881, § 
1712. 
Nelson v. Campbell, 24 P., 539; I W., 261. 
§ 1711. [1453.] Action·by summons.-Form of. A party desiring to
commence an action before a justice of the peace, for the recovery of a 
debt by summons, shall file his claim with the justice of the peace, verified
by his own oath, or that of his agent or attorney, and thereupon the jus­
tice of the peace shall, on the payment of his fees, if demanded, issue a
summons to the opposite party, which summons shall be in the following
form, or as nearly as the case will admit, viz:- 
Terri_t_~~~-~~_!o~!~;~on, } ss. 
To the sheriff or any constable of said county:
In the name of the United States, you are hereby commanded to sum·- 
mon .if he (or they) be found in your county to be and appear before
me at on .... day of , at o'clock P. M. or A. M., to 
answer to the complaint of for a failure to pay him a certain de-
mand, amounting to dollars and cents, upon · (here state 
briefly the nature of the claim) and of this writ make due service and.
return. 
Given under my hand this day of , 18 .
_____________ , Justice of the Peace. 
And the summons shall specify a certain place, day and . hour for the
appearance and answer of the defendant, not less than six nor more than
twenty days from the date of filing plaintiff's claim with the justice, which
summons shall be served at least five days before the time of trial men­
tioned therein, and shall be served by the officer delivering to the defend­
ant, or leaving at his place of abode with some person over twelve years
of age, a true copy of such summons, certified by the officer to be such.­ 
Code of 1881, § 1713. 
Nelson v. Campbell, 24 P., 539. I W. 261. Const. Art. 4, 9 27. 
NOTE: "Territory" should be changed to "State" and "United States" to
"State of Washington." 
§ 1712. [1454.] Action by complaint and notice. Any person de­
siring to commence an action before a justice of the peace, by the service 
of a complaint and notice, can do so by filing his complaint verified by. his
own oath or that of bis agent or attorney with the justice, and when such
complaint is so filed, upon the payment of his fees if demanded, the justice
shall attach thereto a notice, which shall be substantially as follows: - 
Terr~~~~-~~!:U!~;~on, } ss.
To _ 
You are hereby notified to be and appear at my office in on the
____________ day o(. , 18 , at the hour of M., to answer 
to the foregoing complaint or judgment will be taken against you as con­
fessed and the prayer of the plaintiff granted. 
Dated , 18 : .. · · , J. P.
-Code of 1881, § 1714. 
§ 1713. [1455.] Service of complaint and notice. The complaint
and notice shall be served at least five days before the time mentioned in 
the notice for the defendant to appear and answer the complaint, by de­
livering to the defendant, or leaving at his place of abode, with some per­
son over twelve years of age, a true copy of the complaint and notice, cer­
tified by the officer or person making the service to be such. -Code of 1881, 
§ 1715. 
§ 1714. [1456.] All process in name of state-How served. All
process issued by justices of the peace shall run in the name of the State of 
Washington, be dated the day issued, signed by the justice granting the
same, and except as otherwise provided for, be directed to the sheriff or any
constable of the proper county, and the same, as also the complaint and
notice, shall be served by one of said officers, unless otherwise directed by
the justice; except that summons, whether directed to a defendant or to
a garnishee, and complaint and notice, may be served by a citizen of the
State of Washington over twenty-one years of age who is competent to be
a witness in the action, other than the plaintiff, which person shall certify
all copies by him delivered in making such service in the same manner as
such copies are required to be certified by a sheriff or constable in making 
such service.-Laws of 1893, p. 264, § 1. Consh"tulum, Art. 4, § 27. 
§ 1715. [1457.] Return of service. Every constable, sheriff or other
person serving any process or complaint and notice, shall return thereon 
· in writing the time and manner of service, and endorse thereon the legal
fees therefor, and if he is a constable or sheriff shall sign his name to such
return, and if he is not such officer, shall verify such return by affidavit.
-Laws of 1893, p. 264, § 2. · 
Wilson v. Maddock, 5 Or., 48o. 
§ 1716. [1458.] Justice may appoint person to serve. Any justice
may, by appointment in writing, authorize any person, other than the par­ 
ties to the proceeding or action, to serve any process or paper issued by
such justice, and any such person making such service shall return on
such process or paper, in writing, the time and manner of service, and 
· shall sign his name to such return, and be entitled to like fees for making
such service, as a sheriff or constable, and shall endorse his fees for service
thereon: Provided, It shall not be lawful for any justice to issue any pro­
cess or papers to apy person but a regularly qualified sheriff or constable,
in any precinct where such officers reside, unless from sickness or some
other cause said sheriff or constable is not able to serve the same.-Code
of 1881, § 1718. 
§ 1717. [1459.] Proof of service. Proof of service in .either of the
above cases shall be as follows : When made by a constable or sheriff. his
return signed by him and endorsed on the paper or procees. When made 
by any person other than such officer, then by the affidavit of the person
making the service. -Code of 1881, § 1719. 
§ 1718. [1460.] Service by publication-Form. In case personal
service cannot be had by reason of the absence of the defendant from the
county in which the action is sought to be commenced, it shall be proper
to publish the summons or notice with a brief statement of the object and
prayer of the claim or complaint, in some weekly newspaper published in
the county wherein the action is commenced; or if there be no paper pub­ 
.lished in such county, then in some newspaper published in the nearest
adjoining county, which notice shall be published not less than once a
week for three weeks prior to the time fixed for the hearing of the cause,
which shall not be less than four weeks from the first publication of said
notice. Said notice may be substantially as follows:- 
TC~~7tyo~[~~~~~on, } ss.
In justice's court, justice. 
To-------·- .
You are hereby notified that has filed a complaint (or claim as 
the case may be) against you in said court which will come on to be heard
at my office in , in county, W. T., on the day of 
·-----------• A. D., 18 , at the hour of o'clock M., and unless
you appear and then answer, the same will be taken as confessed, and the
demand of the plaintiff granted. The object and demand of said claim
(or complaint as the case may be) is (here insert a brief statement). 
Complaint filed , A. D. 18 . ,J.P.
-Code of 1881, § 1720. 
§ 1719. [1461.] Proof ofsame. Proof of service, in case of publica­
tion, shall be the affidavit of the publisher, printer, foreman or principal 
clerk, showing the same.--Code of 1881, § 1721. 
§ 1720. [1462.] Written admission proof of service. The written
admission of the defendant, his agent or attorney, indorsed upon any sum­ 
mons, complaint and notice, or other paper, shall be complete proof of
service in any case.~Code of 1881, § 1722. 
§ 1721. [1463.] When jurisdiction acquired. The court shall be 
deemed to have obtained possession of the case from the time the com­
plaint or claim is filed, after completion of service, whether by publication
or otherwise, and shall have control of all subsequent proceedings.-Code 
of 18811 § I 723. 
§ 1722. [1464.] Docket of justice-Contents. Every justice of the
peace shall keep a docket in a well-bound book, in which he shall enter:- 
1 . The titles of all actions commenced before him. 
2. The object of the action or proceeding, and if a sum of money be
claimed, the amount of the demand. 
3. The date of the notice and the time of its return; and if an order to
arrest the defendant be made, the statement of the facts on which the or­
der is issued. 
4. The time when the parties, or either of them, appear, or their non-
appearance, if default be made. · 
5. A brief statement of the nature of the plaintiff's demand, and the
amount claimed ; and if any set-off be pleaded, a similar statement of the
set-off, and the amount estimated, and every motion, rule, order, and ex­
ception with the decision of the court thereon. 
6. Every continuance, stating at whose request, and for what time.
7. The demand for a trial by jury, when the same is made, and by whom 
made, the order for the jury, and the time appointed for the trial and re­
turn of jury. 
8. The names of the jury who appear and are sworn; the names of
witnesses sworn, and at whose request. 
9. The verdict of the jury, and when received; and if the jury disagree
and are discharged, the fact of such disagreement and discharge. 
10. The judgment of the court, and the time when rendered.
11. The time of issuing execution, and the name of the officer to whom 
delivered, and an account of the debt and costs, and the fees due to each
person separately. 
1 2. The fact of an appeal having been made and allowed, and the time
when. 
13. Satisfaction of the judgment, and any money paid thereon, and the
time when. 
14. And such other entries as may be material.-Code of 1881, § 1724.
~ 1723. [1465.] Infant to sue by guardian or next ·friend. No 
action shall be commenced by an infant plaintiff except by his guardian,
or until a next friend for such infant shall have been appointed. When­
ever requested, the justice shall appoint some suitable person, who shall
consent thereto in writing, to be named by such plaintiff, to act as his next
friend in such action, who shall be. responsible for the costs tberein.-Code 
of 1881, § 1753. 
§ 1724. [1466.] Guardian ad litem for infant defendant. After ser­
vice and return of process against an infant defendant, the action shall 
· not be further prosecuted, until a guardian for such infant shall have been
appointed. Upon the request of such defendant, the justice shall
appoint some person who shall consent thereto in writing, to be guar- 
dian of. the defendant in defense of the action; and if the defendant shall
notappear on the return day of the process, or if he neglect or refuse to
nominate such guardian, the justice may, at the request of the plaintiff,
appoint some discreet person as such guardian. The .consent of the guar­
dian shall be filed with the justice; and such guardian for the defendant
shall not be liable for any costs in the action.-Code of 1881, § 1754. 
§ 1725. [1467.] One hour for appearance. The parties shall be entitled to one hour in which to make their appearance after the time men­
tioned in the notice for appearance, but shall not be required to remain 
longer than that time, unless both parties appear; and the justice being
present, is actually engaged in the trial of another action or proceeding;
in such case he may postpone the time of appearance until the close of 
such trial.-Code of 1881, § 1755. 
McCoy v. Bell, 201 P. 595. I W. 5<>4. 
§ 1726. [1468.] Change of venue-How made. If, previous to the
commencement of any trial before a justice of the peace, the defendant,
his attorney or agent, shall make and file with the justice an affidavit that 
the deponent believes that the defendant cannot have an impartial trial be­
fore such justice, it shall be the duty of the justice to forthwith transmit all
papers and documents belonging to the case to the next nearest justice of
the peace in the same county, who is not of kin to either party, sick, ab­
sent from the county, or interested in the result of the action either as coun­
sel or otherwise. The justice to whom such papers and documents are so
transmitted, shall proceed as if the suit had been instituted before him.
Distance as contemplated in this section, shall mean to be by the nearest
traveled route. The costs of such change of venue shall abide the result
of the suit.-Code of 1881, § 1938. 
§ 1727. [1469.] Penalty of false returns etc. If any officer, without
showing good cause therefor, fail to execute any process to him delivered, 
and make due return thereof, or make a false return, such officer, for every
such offense, shall pay the party injured ten· dollars, and all damage such
party may have sustained by reason thereof,· to be recovered in a civil ac­ 
tion. -Code of 1881, § 1752. 
§ 1728. [1470.] Security for costs. Whenever the plaintiff is a non­
resident of the county, the justice may require of him security for the costs 
before the commencement of the action.-Code of 1881, § 1725. 
i li:19· 
f 1730. 
f 1731. 
i 1732. 
i 1733. 
f 1736.
Pleadings to be made onfappcarance. 
or what pleadings consist.
May be oral or written.
If oral, shall be entered in docket, if 
written, filed.
Not sufficdent knowledge to form a be­ 
lief deemed a denial. 
i 1734. Written instruments, how pleaded. 
i 17~. All pleadings to be verified. 
CHAPTER CXXX. 
PLEADINGS IN CIVIL ACTIONS IN JUSTICES' COURTS. 
i 1737. 
a 173s. 
i 1739.
~ 1740. 
i 1741. 
Allegations not denied deemed ad-
mitted. I 
Indefinite pleadings may be amended.
Variance immaterial, unless.
Amendments at any time.
Set-off, how pleaded.
If title to land involved justice must
transfer to superior court. 
§ 1729. [1471.] Pleadings to be made on appearance. The plead­
ings in justice's court shall take place upon the appearance of the parties, 
unless they shall have been previously filed or unless the justice shall, for 
good cause shown, allow a longer time than the time of appearance.­
Code of 1881, § 1756. 
§ 1730. (1472.] Of what pleadings consist. The pleadings in the
justice's court shall be :- 
1. The complaint of the plaintiff, which shall state in a plain and direct
manner the facts constituting the cause of action. 
2. The answer of the defendant, which may contain a denial of the
complaint, or any part thereof; and also a statement, in a plain and direct
manner, of any facts constituting a defense. 
3. When the answer sets up a set-off, by way of defense, the reply of
the plaintiff.-Code of 1881, ~ 1757. 
B. B. Co., v. Strand, 23 P., 928; 1 W., 133. 
§ 1731. (1473.] May be oral or written. The pleadings shall be in
writing, when the action is for one of the following causes: 
1. For a forcible or unlawful entry upon, or a forcible or unlawful deten­
tion of lands, tenements or other possessions. 
2. To recover the occupancy or possession of a mining claim. In all
other cases the pleadings may be oral or in writing.-Code of 18811 § 1758. 
N OT.K: See § 10 and Const., Art. IV, § 6. 
§. 1732. [1474.] If oral, shall be entered in docket-If written,
flied. When the pleadings are oral, the substance of them shall be en- 
. tered by the justice in his docket. When in writing they shall be filed in
bis office and a reference shall be made to them in his docket. Pleadings
shall not be required to be in any particular form, but shall be such as to
enable a person of common understanding to know- what is intended.­ 
Code of 1881, § 1759. 
§ 1733. [1475.] Not sufficient knowledge to form a belief deemed
a denial. A statement in an answer or reply, that the party has not suf­ 
ficient knowledge or information, in respect to a particular allegation in the
previous pleadings of the adverse party to form a belief, shall be deemed
equivalent to a denial.-Code of 18811 § 176o. _ 
§ 1734. (1476.] Written instruments; how pleaded. When the
cause of action, or set-off, arises upon an account or instrument for the
payment of money only, it shall be sufficient for the party to- deliver the
account or instrument, or a copy thereof, to the court, and to state that 
there is due to him thereon, from the adverse party, a specified sum, which
he claims to recover or set off. The court may, at the time of pleading,
require that the original account, or instrument, be exhibited to the inspec­
tion of the adverse party, with liberty to copy the same; orif not so exhib­
ited, may prohibit its being given in evidence.-Codeof 1881, § 1761. 
§ 1735. [1477.] All pleadings to be verified. Every complaint, an­
swer or reply shall be verified by the oath of the party pleading; or if he
be not present, by the oath of his attorney or agent, to the effect that he 
believes it to be true. The. verification shall be oral, or in writing, in con­
formity with the pleading verified.-Code of 1881 § 1762. 
§ 1736. [1478.] Allegations not denied deemed admitted. Every
material allegation in a complaint, or relating to a set-off in an answer, not 
denied by the pleading of the adverse party, shall, on the trial, be taken
to be true, except that when a defendant, who has not been served with
a copy of the complaint, fails to appear and answer, the plaintiff cannot
recover without proving his case.-Code of 18811 § 1763. 
§ n37. (1479.] Indetlnite ple~dings maybe amended. Either party
may object to a pleading by his adversary, or to any part thereof that it is 
not sufficiently .explicit for him to understand it, or that it contains no
cause of action or defense although it be taken as true. If the court deem
the objection well founded, it shall order the pleading to be amended; and
if the party refuse to amend, the defective pleadings shall be disregarded, 
-Code of 1881, § 1764. 
§ 1738. [1480.] Variance immaterial, nnlese. A variance between
the proof on the trial, and the allegations in a pleading, shall be disre­ 
garded as immaterial, unless the court be satisfied that the adverse party 
has been mislead to his prejudice thereby.-Code of 1881, § 1765. 
§ 1739. [1481.J Amendments at any time. The pleadings may be
amended at any time before the trial, or during the trial, or upon appeal, 
to supply any defrciency or omissions in the allegations or denials, neces­
sary to support the action or defense, when by such amendment substan­
tial justice will be promoted. If the amendment be made after the issue,
and it be made to appear to the satisfaction of the court that a continuance
is necessary to the adverse party in consequence of such amendment, a
continuance shall be granted. The court may also, in its discretion, re­
quire as a condition of an amendment, the payment of costs to the adverse 
party.--Code of 1881, § 1766. ·
State v. King ce., 29 P., 214; 3 W., 795. 
~ 1740. [1482.] Set-offs, how pleaded. To entitle a defendanttoany
set-off he may have against the plaintiff, he must allege the same in his
answer ; and the statutes regulating set-offs in the district court shall in all 
respects be applicable to a set-off in a justice's court, if the amount
claimed to be set-off, after deductingthe amount 1/ound] due the plaintiff, 
be within the jurisdiction of the justice of the peace; judgment may, in
like manner, be rendered by the justice, in favor of the· defendant, for the
balance found due the plaintiff.-Code of 1881, § 1767. · 
NOT.It: See§§ 671-678. 
§ 1741. (1483.] If title to land involved, justice must transfer to
superior court. If it appear on the trial of any cause before a jus­
tice of the peace, from the evidence of either party, that the title to land 
- is in question, which title shall be disputed by the other, the justice shall
immediately make an entry thereof in his docket, and cease all further
proceedings in the cause, and shall certify and return to the district court of
the county, a transcript of all the entries made in his docket, relating to
the cause, together with all the process and other papers relating to the
action, in the same manner, and within the same time, as upon an appeal;
and thereupon the parties shall file their pleadings, and the district court
shall proceed in the cause to final judgment and execution, in the same
manner as if the said action had been· originally commenced therein, and
the cost shall abide the event of the suit.-Code of 1881, § 1868. 
§ 1742. [1484.] Arrest same as in superior courts. A justice of the
peace shall issue a warrant of arrest in all such cases within bis jurisdic­ 
tion, and for such causes, and upon such proof as is provided for an order
for a warrant in the act regulating civil actions.-Code of 1881, § 1746. 
See chapter 22, ~~ 249-251. 
§ 1743. [1485.] Bond of plaintiff. Before issuing the warrant of ar­
rest the justice shall require a bond on part of the plaintiff, with one or 
more sureties, to the effect that if the defendant recover judgment, the
plaintiff will pay all costs that may be awarded to the defendant, and all
damages which may be sustained by reason of the arrest, not exceeding
the sum specified in the bond, which shall be at least one hundred dollars. 
-Code of 1881, § 1747.
§ 1744. [1486.] Warrant served by arresting defendant; The 
warrant shall be served by arresting the defendant and taking him before
the justice of the peace who issued the same; but if such justice at the
return thereof, be absent or unable to try the action, the officer shall im­
mediately take the defendant to the nearest justice of the same county,
who shall take cognizance of the action, and proceed thereon as if the
warrant had been issued by himself.-Code of 1881, § 1748. 
§ 1745. [1487.] Notice of arrest to be given plaintiff. The officer
making the arrest shall immediately give notice to the plaintiff, his agent or
attorney, and indorse on the warrant the time of the arrest, and the time 
of serving notice on t~e plaintiff.-Code of 1881, § 1749.
§ 1746. [1488.] Defendant not to be held more than twenty-four 
hours. When a defendant is brought before a justice on a warrant he
shall be detained in the custody of the officer until he shall be discharged
according to law ; but in no case shall the defendant be detained longer
than twenty-four hours from the time he shall be brought before the jus­
tice, unless within that time the trial of the action shall be commenced,
or unless it bas been delayed at the instance of the defendant.-Code of 
1881, § 1750.
§ 1747. [1489.] Continuance granted if bond given. If the de­ 
fendant, on his appearance, demand a continuance, the same may be 
granted on condition that he remain in custody or execute and file with the
justice a bond, with one or more sufficient sureties, to be approved by the
justice, to the effect that he will render himself amenable to the process of 
the court ; or that the sureties will pay to plaintiff the amount of any
judgment which he may recover in the action. On filing such · bond, the
justice shall order the defendant to be discharged from custody.-Code of 
r 88 I, § I 7 5 I. 
i 1748. Plaintiff may have immediate delivery. 
i 1749, PlaJntiff mast make affidavit-Contents
of. 
i 1750. Order for delivery on receipt of bond. 
i 1751. Bond and affidavit to be served, 
I 1752. Exception to sureties. 
i 1753. Defendant may give bond to keep prop­
erty. 
i 1754. 
I 1755. 
i 1756. 
i 1757. 
i 1758. 
Justification of sureties. \
Building may be broken into by sheriff. 
Sheriff to keep property.
Proceedings when third party claims
property.
Officer to make return within five days. 
§ 1748. [1490.J Plaintiff may have immediate delivery.-The
plaintiff in an action to recover the possession of personal property, may, 
at the time of issuing such summons, or at any time before answer, claim
the immediate delivery of such property as provided in this act.-Code of 
I 88 I, § I 809. 
§ 1749. [1491.J Plaintiff must make affidavit-Contents of. When
a delivery is claimed, an affidavit shall be [be] made by the plaintiff, or by 
some one in his behalf, showing :- 
1. That the plaintiff is the owner of the property claimed, (particularly
describing it), or is lawfully entitled to the possession thereof, by virtue of
a special property therein, the facts in respect to which shall be set forth. 
2. That the property is wrongfully detained by the defendant.
3. The alleged cause of the detention thereof, according to his best 
knowledge, information and belief.
4. That the same has not been taken for a tax, assessment or fine, pur­ 
suant to a statute, or seized under an execution or attachment against the
property of the plaintiff, or if so seized, that it is by statute exempt from
such seizure, and · 
5. The actual value of the property. Code of 18811 § 1810. 
§ 1750. [1492.J Order for delivery, on receipt of bond. The justice
shall thereupon, by an indorsement in writing upon the affidavit, order the 
sheriff, or any constable of the county, to take the same from the defendant
and deliver it to the plaintiff upon receiving a properbond.-Code of 18811 
§ 1811. 
CHAPTER CXXXII. 
REPLEVIN. 
§ 1751. [1493.] Bond and affidavit to be served. Upon the receipt
of the affidavit and order with a bond, executed by two or more sufficient 
sureties, approved by the sheriff or constable, to the effect that they are
bound in double the value of the property as stated in the affidavit, for the
prosecution of the action, for the return of the property to the defendant,
if return thereof be adjudged, and for the payment to him of such sum as
may for any cause be recovered against the plaintiff, the sheriff or con­
stable shall forthwith take the property described in the affidavit, if it be
in the possession of the defendant or his agent, and retain it in his custody.
He shall also without delay, serve on the defendant a copy of the affidavit,
order and bond, by delivering the same to him personally if he can be 
found within the county, or to his agent from whose possession the prop­
erty is taken, or if neither can be found in the county, by leaving them at
the usual abode of either within the aMHlty, with some person of suitable
age and discretion: or if neither have any known place of abode in the
county, by putting them into the post-office, directed to the defendant
at the post-office nearest him.-Code of 1881, § 1812. 
§ 1752. [1494.] Exception to sureties. The defendant may, within
two days after the service of a copy of the affidavit, order and bond, give 
notice to the officer that be excepts to the sufficiency of the sureties. If he
fail to do so, he shall be deemed to have waived all objection to them.
When the defendant excepts, the sureties shall justify upon one day's no­
tice before the justice; and the officer shall be responsible for the suffi­
cienoy of the sureties, until the objection to them is either waived as above
provided, or until they justify, or new sureties be substituted, and they
justify. If the defendant except to the sureties, he cannot reclaim the prop­
erty as provided in the next section.-Code of 1881, § 1813. 
§ 1753. [1495.] Defendant may give bond to keep property. At 
any time before the delivery of the property to the plaintiff, the defendant
may, if he do not except to the sureties of the plaintiff, require the return
thereof upon giving to the officer a bond executed by two or more suffi­
cient sureties, to the effect that they are bound in double the value of the
property as stated in the affidavit of the plaintiff, for the delivery thereof
to the plaintiff, if such delivery be adjudged, and for the payment to him
of such sum as may for any cause be recovered against the defendant. If
a return of the property be not so required, within two days after the tak­
ing and serving of notice to the defendant, it shall be delivered to the
plaintiff, except as provided in this chapter.-Code of 1881, § 1814. 
§ 1754. [1496.] Justification of sureties. The defendant's sureties,
upon one day's notice to the plaintiff, or his attorney, shall justify before 
the justice, and upon such justification, the officer shall deliver the prop­
erty to the defendant. The officer shall be responsible for the defendant's
sureties until they justify, or until the justification is complete, or ex­
pressly waived, and may retain the property until that time; but if they,
or others in their place, fail to justify at the time appointed, he shall de­
liver the property to plaintiff.-Code of 1881, § 1815. 
§ 1755. [1497.] Building may be broken into by sheriff. If the
property, or any part thereof, be concealed in a building or inclosure, the 
officer shall publicly demand its delivery ; and if it be not delivered, he
shall cause the building or inclosure to be broken open and take the prop- 
. erty into bis possession.-Code of 1881, § 1816. 
§ 1756. [1498.] Sheriff' to keep p~operty. When the officer shall
have taken property, as in this chapter provided, he shall keep it in a
secure place, and deliver to the party entitled thereto, upon receiving his 
lawful fees for taking, and bis necessary expenses for keeping the same.­
Code of 1881, § 1817. 
§ 1757. [1499.] Proceedings when third party claims property. 
If the property taken be claimed by any other person than the defendant
or his agent, and such person make affidavit of his title thereto, or his
right to the possession thereof, stating the ground of such title or right,
and serve the same upon the officer before the delivery of the property to
the plaintiff, the sheriff shall not be bound to keep the property or deliver 
it to the plaintiff, unless the plaintiff, on demand of him or his agent, in­
demnify the officer against such claim by a bond executed by two suffi­
cient sureties accompanied by their affidavits, that they are each worth
double the value of the property, as specified in the affidavit of the plain­
tiff, over and above their debts and liabilities, exclusive of property ex­
empt from execution, and freeholders or householders of the county; and
no claim to such property by any other person than the defendant or his
agent shall be valid against the officer, unless made as aforesaid, and not­
withstanding such claim, when so made, he may retain the property a rea­
sonable time to demand such indemnity.-Code of 1881, § 1818. 
§ 1758. [1500.J Officer to make return within flve days. The offi­
cer shall return the order and affidavit with his proceedings thereon, to 
the justice within five days after taking the property mentioned therein.­ 
Code of 1881, § 1819. 
i 1759. Garnishee may be summoned on affida·
vit. 
i 1700. Form of summons. 
i 1']61. Service of summons and return. 
i J ']62. Copy of summons to be also served on
defendant. 
i 1']63. Garnishee liable after service. 
f 1764- Service of summons begins action
against garnishee. 
i 1765. Affidavit deemed complaint-Examina-
tion of garnishee. 
i 1']66. Trial of garnishee. 
i 1767. Defendant may defend for garnishee. 
i 1766. If plaintiff's action fail garnishee re-
covers costs. 
§ 1759. [1501.] Garnishee may be summoned on affidavit. When­
ever any action shall have been commenced by summons upon contract,
express or implied, or notice and complaint in a justice's court, if the 
plaintiff or some one in his behalf shall make and deliver to the officer
having such summons or notice and complaint, an affidavit stating that
the affiant has good reason to believe that some person (naming him) is
indebted to the defendant, or has personal property in his possession or
under his control bf-longing to the defendant ; or when there is more than
one defendant, to any or either of them, not by law exempt from sale on
execution, and demand that he shall summon such person as garnishee,
such officer shall summon such person in writing to appear before the
justice on the return day of such summons or notice and complaint to an­
swer touching his liability as gamishee.-Laws of 1887-8, p. IOI, § 1. 
§ 176o. [ 1502.] Porm of summons. The summons to the garnishee
may be substantially as follows:- 
Territory of Washington, } 
CHAPTER CXXXIII. 
GARNISHMENTS. 
________ County ss.
The Territory of Washington to -----------· 
i 1769. If plaintiff' recovers, garnishee must
pay costs. 
t 1770, Judgment against garnishee OD bis
failure to ·pay. 
i 1771. No judgment against garnishee until
against defendant. 
I 1772. Judgment agpinst garnishee on failure
to appear or answer-Arrest of gar­ 
nishee. 
i 1773. Garnishee may appear and defend af­
terwards. 
i 1774. Judgment against garnishee a bar to
defendant. 
Whereas, a summons or notice and complaint has been issued by ,
a justice of the peace of said county, returnable on the day of 
___________ A. D. 18 in favor of·----------· plaintiff and against .
defendant; and whereas, the plaintiff (or A. B. in his behalf) has made 
oath that you have property in your possession or under your control be­
longing to the defendant (or are indebted to him). Now, therefore, you
are hereby summoned to be and appear before the said justice at his office
in said county on the return day of said summons, ( or notice and com- 
plaint) at o'clock in the-----------· noon of said day; then and there
to answer under oath touching your liability as garnishee. 
Given under my hand this day of 18 . 
___________ Constable- or Sheriff.
-Laws of 1887-8, p. 101, § 2. 
§ 1761. [1503.J Service of summons and return. The officer shall
serve such summons on the garnishee personally and return the same with 
the affidavit to the justice at the same time that be shall make return of
the service of the summons or notice and complaint, and state the day such
summons was served on the garnishee.-Laws of 1887-8, p. 102, § 3. 
§ 1 762. [ 1504.] Copy of summons to be also served on defendant. 
In all cases when a summons or notice is required to be served upon any
person pr corporation, to summon, notify or charge such person or corpor­
ation as garnishee in any action pending before a justice of the peace, a
copy of such summons or notice shall be served on the defendant within
the time that such summons or notice is required to be served on such
garnishee. If such defendant cannot be found within the jurisdiction of
such justice of the peace, and shall have a known agent or attorney resid­
ing therein, the summons or notice shall be served on such agent or attor­
ney, or upon some suitable person over the age of sixteen years, at the
dwelling-house or place of abode of the defendant.-Laws of 1887-81 p. 
1"02, § 4.
~ 1763. [1505.J Garnishee liable after service. The garnishee, 
from the time of the service of such summons shall stand liable to the
plain tiff to the amount of the personal property, money, credits and effects
in his hands or under his control belonging to the defendant, and the
amount of his own indebtedness to the defendant, then due or to become
due and not by law exempt from sale on execution.-Laws of 1887-8, p. 
102, § -1· 
§ 1764. [1506.] Service of summons begins action against gar­
nishee. The service of the garnishee summons shall. be deemed the
commencement of an action against such garnishee ; and upon fhe re­ 
turn of the constable that such summons has been duly served the justice
shall enter an action in his docket in which the plaintiff in the original ac­
tion shall be plaintiff and the garnishee defendant. Laws of 1887-81 p. 
102. § 6. 
§ 1765. [1507.] Affidavit deemed complaint-Examination of gar­
nishee. On the appearance of the garnishee before the justice, the affi­ 
1 
davit aforesaid shall be deemed a sufficient complaint in this action, and
the justice shall forthwith proceed to examine the said garnishee and his
witnesses, touching the matters alleged in the affidavit, and shall reduce
the answers of said garnishee and his witnesses to writing and file the same
with the papers in the case; such examination may be adjourned by said
garnishee as in case of adjournment in justice's court in civil actions.­ 
Laws of 1887-8, p. 103, ~ 7. 
§ 1766. [1508.] Trial of garnishee. If the plaintiff shall not be sat­
isfied with the answers of the garnishee, or if either pany shall desire a 
trial, the justice shall enter the fact in his docket and the case 'shall be 
proceeded with and tried upon the issue formed by the affidavit and answer
as in other actions commenced by summons, and if, upon trial of any such
issue, property or effects shall be found in the hands of the garnishee, or
it shall appear that such garnishee was indebted to the defendant, the j us­
tice or jury shall assess the value thereof, and the garnishee may hold the
same subject to the further order of the justice.-Laws of 1887-8, p. 103, § 8. 
§ 1767. [r509.] Defendant may defend for garnishee. The defend­
ant in the original action may appear and defend the proceedings against 
the garnishee upon the ground that the indebtedness of the garnishee, or
any property held by him, is exempt from execution against such defend­
ant, or for any other reason is not liable to garnishment, or upon any
grounds upon which a garnishee might defend the same, and may partici­
pate in the trial of any issue between the plaintiff and the garnishee, for
the protection of his interests.-Laws of 1887-8, p. 103, § 9. 
§ 1768. [1510.J If plaintiff's action fail, garnishee recovers costs. 
If in the action instituted against the garnishee the plaintiff shall be non­
suited or discontinue his action, or if upon the answer and trial of the issue
between the plaintiff and garnishee no property or effects shall be found
in the hands of the garnishee, or nothing shall be found due from the gar­
nishee to the defendant, or if in the action against the principal defendant
the plaintiff shall be nonsuited or discontinue his action, or if on the trial
in such action nothing shall be found due from the defendant to the plain­
tiff,-then in each of these cases the garnishee shall recover costs against
the plaintiff, and no such costs shall be paid by the defendant.-Laws of 
1887-8, p. 103, § IO. • 
§ 1769. [1511.]. If plaintiff recover, garnishee ordered to pay, etc. 
If the plaintiff recover against the defendant in the original action, and
the answer of the garnishee when no issue is made thereon, or the find­
ing of the court or jury on an issue show that the garnishee at the time 
d( the service of the summons had property in his possession belonging to
the defendant, or that he was indebted to him, the justice shall enter an
order in his docket requiring the garnishee, within ten days, to pay or de­
liver to the justice such property or the amount of such indebtedness, or so
much thereof as may be necessary to satisfy such judgment, with costs
thereof, and the costs of the garnishee proceedings; or if it appears from
such answer or finding that the garnishee is to pay or deliver to the de­
fendant any money or property in any other manner or at any other time
than immediately, and at the time of service of the summons, the same
belonging to the defendant, then the order of the justice shall be that such
payment or delivery be so made to the justice for the benefit of the plain­
tiff. If such garnishee shall pay such indebtedness, and deliver such
property as directed by such order, the costs of the garnishee shall be paid
out of the money or property received by the justice, unless the garnishee,
upon an issue joined with him by the plaintiff, shall have been held liable
in a greater amount of property or indebtedness than was disclosed in his
answer, in which case he shall not have costs. And all property and
effects, except money, delivered to the justice shall be by him ordered to
be sold on the execution against the defendant.--Laws of 1887-8, p. 103, 
§ II. 
§ 1770. [1512.] Judgment against garnishee on. his failure to pay. 
If the garnishee do not deliver over the property or pay the money so 
found in his hands and belonging to the defendant, as provided in the
preceding section, then judgment shall be given against him for the value
of such property or money and costs of suit in the cause in which he is
garnishee, and no such costs shall be paid by the defendant.-Laws 
of 1887-8, p. 104, § 12.
§ 1771. [1513.] No judgment against garnishee until against de­ 
fendant. No final judgment shall be rendered against the garnishee un­
til final judgment be rendered against the defendant in the orginal action ;
but no judgment shall be rendered against a garnishee or any money be
required to be delivered by him to the justice upon any liability arising
out of a debt [due] [evide,ued] by negotiable paper, unless such paper is
delivered or the garnishee completely exonerated or indemnified from all
liability thereon after he may have satisfied the judgment.-Laws of 
1887-8, p. 104, ~ 13.
~ 1772. [1514.] Judgment against garnishee on failure to appear 
or answer-Arrest of garnishee. When a garnishee shall fail to ap­
pear, or appearing, shall fail to make full answers upon oath to the inter­
rogatories.of the justice touching his liabilities as garnishee, the justice
shall enter such fact in his docket, and he shall be adjudged to be in­
debted to the defendant; and if judgment shall be rendered in favor of the
plaintiff, against the defendant, judgment in favor of the plaintiff shall be
entered against such garnishee for the amount of the judgment against
the defendant, and for all costs in the garnishee proceedings, and no
such costs shall be paid by the defendant ; or on demand of the plaintiff
he may issue a warrant to arrest the garnishee, which shall be served in
the same manner as warrants issued by justices of the peace in · civil ac­
tions founded on tort, and the garnishee shall be held thereon until he
shall make full and direct answers to such interrogatories; and the justice
may continue the cause to some other day if necessary for further proceed­ 
ings.-Laws of 1887-8, p. 104, ~ 14. 
§ 1773. [1515.] Garnishee may appear and defend afterward. If
the garnishee shall have failed to appear at the proper time he may after­
wards appear and answer at any time before final judgment against him, 
if he shall first pay all costs in the garnishee suit which have accrued up
to that time, and when he shall so appear the justice shall cause the plain­
tiff to be notified thereof, so that he may be present at the examination.­ 
Laws of 1887-8, p. 105, § 15. 
§ 1774. [1516.] Judgment against garnishee a bar to defendant. 
In all actions brought by the defendant against the garnishee for the re­
covery of any property, credits, money or effects delivered up or paid by
order of any judgment rendered under this act, except costs rendered
against the garnishee, such judgment may be pleaded in bar, and the 
same shall be conclusive between such parties.-Lawsof 1887-8, p. 105, § 1. 
§ 1 77 s- [ 1 s 17.] Trial not exceeding sixty days after pleading. 
When the pleadings of the parties shall have taken place, the justice shall,
upon the application of either party, if the defendant be not under arrest,
and sufficient cause shown on oath, continue the case for any time not
exceeding sixty days. If the continuance be on account of absence of
testimony, it shall be for such reasonable time as will enable the party to
procure such testimony, and shall be at the cost of the party applying
therefor, unless otherwise ordered by the justice; and in all respects shall
be governed by the law applicable to continuance in the district court.­ 
Code of 1881, § 1769. 
Nelson v. Campbell 24 P. 539. 1 W. 261. 
Parker v. Dacres 1 W. 195, 23 P. 415. 
§ 1776. [1518.] Trial by judgeifjurywaived. Upon issue joined,
if a jury trial be not demanded, the justice shall hear the evidence, and 
decide all questions of law and fact, and render judgment accordingly.
-Code of 18'81, § 1782. ' 
§ 1777. [1519.] Jury trial-Six jurors-Pees. After the appear­
ance of the defendant, and before the justice shall proceed to inquire into
the merits of the cause, either party may demand a jury to try the action, 
which jury shall be composed of six good and lawful men having the
qualifications of jurors in the district court of the same county, unless the
parties shall agree upon a less number; provided, that the party demand­
ing the jury shall first pay to the justice the sum of six dollars, which
shall be paid over by the justice tc the jury before they are discharged, 
and said amount shall be taxed as costs against the losing party .-Laws 
of 1887-8, p. 118, § 1. 
§ 1i78. [1520.] Trial on return of jury. When a jury is demanded,
the trial of the case must be adjourned until the time fixed for the return
of the jury; if neither party desire an adjournment the time must be de­ 
termined by the justice, and must be on the same day, or within the next
two days. The jury must be immediately selected as herein provided.­ 
Laws of 1887-8, p. 118, § 2. 
§ 1779. [1521.] Drawing the jury. The justice shall write in a
panel the names of eighteen persons, citizens of the county, from which 
the defendant, his agent or attorney, must strike one name ; the plaintiff,
his agent or attorney, one, and so on alternately until each party shall
have stricken six names; and the remaining six names shall constitute
the jury to try such case ; and if either party neglect or refuse to aid in
striking the jury as aforesaid, the justice shall strike the name in behalf 
of such party.-Laws ef 1887-8, p. 119, § 3. 
§ 1780. [1522.] Porm of summons to jurors. The justice shall
thereupon issue a summons for the jury, in which the following form shall 
be observed in substance:-
The l:~~~io(_~~~~~~gton~} 
The United States of America to the Sheriff or Constable of said County;
You are hereby commanded to summon to appear before me, 
at my office in precinct, said county, on the day of__ _A. D., 
18 __ at o'clock in the · noon, to serve as jurors in a case
pending before me, then and there to be tried. And this they shall in no 
wise omit: And have you then and there this writ, with your doings
thereon. 
Given under my hand this, the day of . A. D. _
A B Justice of the Peace. 
Which summons shall be personally served upon the persons named, and
the same shall be returned, with the names of the persons summoned, at 
the time appointed for the trial of the cause.-Laws oj 1887-8, p. 119, § 4.
§ 1781. [1523.] Challenges-Three peremptory. Either party may 
challenge the jurors, but when there are several parties on either side,
they shall join in a challenge before it can be made. The challenges shall
he to individual jurors, and shall be peremptory or for cause. Each party
shall be entitled to three peremptory challenges.-Code oj 1881, § 1774. 
§ 1782. [1524.] Challenges for cause. Challenges for cause may be
taken on any ground that would be a good cause of challenge on the 
trial of an action in the district court. Challenges for cause shall be tried
by the justice.-Code of 1881, § 1775. 
§ 1783. [1525.] Swearing the jury. When the jury is selected, the
justice shall administer to them an oath or affirmation well and truly to try 
the cause.-Code ef 1881, § 1776. 
§ 1784. [1526.] Verdict. · When the jury have agreed on their ver­
dict, they shall deliver the same to the justice, publicly, who shall enter it 
on his docket.-Code oj 1881, § 1777.
~ 1785. [1527.] Justice may discharge jury on failure to agree. 
Whenever a justice shall be satisfied that a jury, sworn in any civil 
cause before him, having been out a reasonable time, cannot agree on their
verdict, he may discharge them and issue a new oenire, unless the parties
consent that the justice may render judgment on the evidence before
him, or upon such other evidence as they may produce.-Code of 1881, 
s 1778. 
§ 1786. [1528.] · If juror disobey summons, ten dollars fine. 
Every person who shall be duly summoned as a juror, and shall not ap­
pear nor render a reasonable excuse for his default, shall be subject to a fine
not exceeding ten dollars.-Code of 1881, § 1779. 
i 1787. Judgments of dismissal. 
i 1788. Judgment by default-How rendered. 
i 1789. Judgment on verdict. 
i 1790. Plaintiff must pay cost if tender exceed
judgment. 
ij 1791. Defendant given judgment. 
i 1792. Costs, how included in judgment. 
§ 1787. [1529.] Judgment of dismissal. Judgment that the action
be dismissed, without prejudice to a new action, may be entered, with 
costs,' in the following cases : ... 
1. When the plaintiff voluntarily dismisses the action before it is finally
submitted. 
2. When be fails to appear in the time specified in the notice, upon con­
tinuance, or within one hour thereafter. 
3. When it is objected at the trial, and appears by the evidence that
the action is brought in the wrong county ; but if the objection be taken and
overruled, it shall be cause only of reversal or appeal ; if not taken at the
trial it shall be deemed waived, and shall not be cause of reversal.-Code 
of 1881, § 1780. 
Knoff v. Puget S'd C. Co., 24 P., 27; 1 W., 57. 
§ 1788. [1530.J Judgment by default-Bow rendered. When the
defendant fails to appear and plead at the time specified in the notice, or
within one hour thereafter, judgment shall be given as follows: 
1. When the defendant bas been served with a true copy of the com­
plaint, judgment shall be given without further evidence for the sum speci­
fied therein. 
2. In other cases, the justice shall hear the evidence of the plaintiff,
and render judgment for such sum only as shall appear by the evidence
to be just, but in no case exceed the amount specified in the complaint.­ 
Code of 1881, § 1781. 
McCoy v. Bell, 20 P., 595; I W., 504. 
§ 1789. [1531.] Judgment on verdict. Upon the verdict of the jury
the justice shall immediately render judgment thereon. When the trial
is by the justice. judgment shall be entered immediately after the close of 
the trial, if the defendant has been arrested and is still in custody ; in
other cases it shall be entered within three days after the close of the trial. 
-Code of 1881, § 1783. 
CHAPTER CXXXV. 
JUDGMR~TS IN CIVIL ACTIONS. 
§ 1790. r1532.] Plaintiff must pay costs if tender exceeds judg­
ment, If the defendant, at any time before the trial, offer in writing to 
allow Judgment to be taken against him for a specified sum, the plaintiff
may immediately have judgment therefor, with costs then accrued; but if 
he do not accept such offer before thetrial, and fail to recover on the trial
of the action, a sum greater than the offer, such plaintiff shall not recover
any costs that may accrue after he shall have been notified of the offer of
defendant, but such costs shall be adjudged against him, and if he recover,
deducted from his recovery. But the offer and failure to accept it, shall
not be given in evidence to affect the recovery, otherwise than as to costs,
as above provided.-Code of 1881, § 1784. 
§ 1791. (1533.] Defendant given judgment on set-off equalling
plaintiff's claim. When the set-off of the defendant proved shall ex­
ceed the claim of the plaintiff, and such excess in amount exceed the 
jurisdiction of a justice of the peace, the court shall allow such amount
as is necessary to cancel the plaintiff's claim, and give the defendant a
judgment for costs; but in such case, the court shall not render judgment
for any further sum in favor of the defendant.-Code of 1881, § 1768. 
§ 1792. (1534.] Costs, how included in judgment. When the pre-,
vailing party is entitled to costs, by this act, the justices shall add their 
amount to the judgment ; or in case of the failure of the plaintiff to re­
cover, or in case of dismissal of the action, he shall enter up judgment in
favor of the defendant for the amount of such costs~-Code of 18811 § 1785. 
NOTB: See ~ 1796. . 
i 1793. Pees of justice of the peace. 
f 1794. Pees where justice receives a salary. 
i 1795. No fees except aa herein provid~. 
§ 1793. Pees of justice of the peace. The fees and compensation
of justices of the peace shall be as follows, to-wit: 
For ~oc~eting «;ach cause, to be charged but once .
For 1sswng notice. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For issuing warrant in criminal cases. . . . . . .
For taking r«;cogni~~ce of bail, including justification .
For committing to Jatl. . . . . .
For issuing subpoena, with any number of names .
For entering judgment on trial, by confession or by default .
For each folio of certified copy of proceeding of any kind before a justice 
of .the.peace, or (!f paper~ filed therein, including certificate .
For issumg any wnt or venue . 
For taking affidavits or acknowledgments, each .
For attending with clerk of county commissioners at the opening of polls, 
per diem. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 oo
For filing each paper in a cause, other than exhibits............ . . . . . . . . . . 05
For approving a bond, including justification. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
F<?r administering an oath, except in a judicial proceeding betore such 
Justice................................................................. 15
For taking depositions, for each folio. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . IO 
For solemnization of marriage and making return thereof. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 oo
For each continuance or adjournment granted by consent or on motion of 
either party. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25 
For trial of each cause .. ................................... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 oo 
-Laws of 1893, p. 143, § 1. 
CHAPTER CXXXVI. 
COSTS AND FEES IN JUSTICES' COURTS. 
i 1796. Costs to be included in judgment-FiTe
dollars attorney's fee. 
§ 1 794. Pees where justice receives a salary. I~ any civil action
commenced before or transferred to a justice of the peace receiving a salary,
the plaintiff may, at the _time of such commencement or transfer, pay to
such justice the sum of two dollars, which sum shall be all the fees and 
So 25
25 
So / 
75 
25
25
25 
IO 
25
25 
charges which any party to such action shall be compelled to pay to such
justice up to and including the rendition of judgment in such action, unless 
process in replevin, attachment or garnishment shall issue therein, in
which case the party procuring such process may pay to such justice the
sum of one dollar as full payment for the fees and charges of such justice
incident to the proceedings under such proeess: but in case said action is
transferred from such justice before final judgment, such justice shall repay
to any party making such payments any sum in excess of what said party
would have been compelled to pay by section one [1793] hereof.-Laws of 
1893, p. 143, § 2. 
§ 1795. No fees except as herein provided. No justice of the peace
in any civil action or proceeding shall be entitled to or receive any fees or 
compensations not provided for by this act..-Laws of 1893, p. 144, § 3. 
§ 1796. Costs included in judgments-Five dollars attorney's fee. 
When the prevailing party is entitled to recover costs in a civil action be­
fore a justice .of the. peace, the.justice shall add the amount thereof to the 
judgment; in case of failure of plaintiff to recover or of .dismissal of the
action, the justice shall enter up judgment in favor of the defendant (or the
amount of his costs ; and in case any party so entitled to costs is repre­
sented in the action by an attorney, the justice shall include an attorney's 
fee of five dollars as part of the costs.-Laws of 1893, p. 22, § 1. 
NOTE: This section amends j 1792, (1785, Code of 1881.] 
· i 1797. 
f 179"3. 
i 1799. 
i 18oo. 
f 18o1. 
· CHAPTER CXXXVII. 
Execution, how long stayed.
Bond to stay execution.
Form of bond;
Execution against property, of princi­ 
pal and bail.
Surely entitled lo judgment against de- 
fendant. · 
i 1bo2. Justice lo recall execution where judg­
ment is stayed. 
! 18o3. Mutual judgments may be set off'. 
~ 18o4. Set-off' of judgment rendered before an-
other justice. 
i 18o5. Execution for balance after set-off". 
i 18o6. No execution after five years. 
i 18o7. Succeeding justice may issue execution. 
i 18o8. ·Execution by justice of another county
on transcript of judgment. 
i 18og. Execution, fonn and contents. 
EXECUTIONS. 
i 1810. Amount of 'debts and •fees to be en­
dorsed on execution. 
i 1811. Execution may be renewed for thirty
days. 
i 1812. Notice of sale on execution. 
i 1813. Sale on execution-Return. 
i 1814- Officer selling must not buy. 
f 1815- When execution may issue against the 
i 1816. 
i 1818. 
person.
Garnishees may be summoned to sat­ 
isfy judgment.
Execution for costs against prevailing
party after execution returned.
Proceedings when property is claimed
by third party.
Claimant not precluded from other
remedies. 
§ 1797. [I535.J Execution, how long stayed. The execution upon
a judgment by a justice of the peace may be stayed in the manner herein­ 
'after provided, upon reasonable notice to the opposite party, and for the
following periods of time, to be calculated from the date of the judg­
ment:- 
1. If the judgment be for any sum not' exceeding twenty-five dollars,
exclusive of costs, one month. 
2. If it be for more than twenty-five dollars, two months.-Code of 
1881,§ 1786.
§ 1798. [1536.J Bond to stay execution. To entitle any person to 
such stay of execution, some responsible person, to be approved by the 
justice, and not being a party to the judgment, must, within five days
after rendering of the judgment, enter into a bond; before the justice, to
the adverse _party, in a suffieient sum to secure the payment of the
judgment and costs, conditioned to be void. upon such payment, at the
expiration .of the stay.~Code of 1881, § 1787. 
§ 1799. [1537.J Porm of bond. Such bond shall be signed by the
person entering into the same, and may be in the following form :· - 
Whereas, AB, has obtained a judgment before J P, one of the justices
of the peace in and for ., county, on the day of__ , 
18 , against C D, for dollars; now, therefore, I, E F, ac-
knowledge myself bound to A B in the sum of .dollars ; this bond 
to be void if such judgment shall be paid at the expiration of , _
month after the time it was rendered. 
Dated the day of.. __ , 18 . , E. F.-
Code of. 1881, § 1788. 
§ 1800, [1538.] Execution against property of principal and bail. 
If at the expiration of the stay, the judgment be not paid, the execution
shall issue against both the principal and bail. If the principal do not
satisfy the execution, and the officer cannot find sufficient property belong­
ing to him upon which to levy, he shall levy upon the property of the bail,
and in his return shall state what amount of money, collected by him on
the execution, was collected from the bail, and the time when the same was
received.-Code of 1881, § 1789. 
§ 1801. [1539.J Surety entitled to judgment against defendant. 
After the return of such execution, the bail shall be entitled, on applica­
tion to the justice, to have the judgment, or so much thereof as may have
been collected from him in satisfaction of the execution, transferred to his
use; and he may collect the same from the defendant by execution, to­
gether with the interest at the rate of twelve per cent. per annum. -Code of 
1881, § 1790. 
§ 1802. [1540.J Justice to recall execution where judgment is
stayed. If judgment be stayed in the manner above provided, after an 
· execution has been issued thereon, the justice shall revoke such execution,
in the same manner, and with like effect as he is hereinafter directed to
revoke an execution, after an appeal has been allowed; and if the defend­
ant have been committed, shall order him to be discharged from custody. 
-Code of 1881, § 1791. 
§ 1803. [1541 .] Mutual judgments may be set-off. If there be mut­
ual justice's judgments between the same parties, upon which the time for
appealing has elapsed on judgment, on the application of either party; and
reasonable notice given to the adverse party, one may be set off against 
the other, by the justice before whom the judgment against which the set­
off is proposed, may be.-Code of 1881, § 1792. 
§ 1804. [1542.J Set-off of judgment rendered before another jus­
tice. If the judgment proposed as a set-off was rendered before another
justice, the party proposing such set-off shall produce before such justice 
a transcript of such judgment, upon which there is a certificate of the j us­
tice before whom such may be, that it is unsatisfied in whole or in part,
and that there is no appeal, and that such transcript was obtained for the
purpose of being set off against the judgment to which it was offered as a
set-off. The justice granting such transcript shall make an entry thereof 
on his docket, and all further proceedings on such judgment shall be
stayed, unless such transcript be returned with the proper justice's certifi­
cate thereon, that it has not been allowed in set-.off.-Code of ~881, § 1793. 
§ 1805. [1543.J Exeoution for balance after set-off. If any justice
shall set off one judgment against another, he shall make an entry thereof
on his docket, and execution shall issue only for the balance which may be
due after such set -off If a justice shall allow a transcript of a judgment 
rendered by another justice to be set off, he shall file such transcript among
the papers relating to the judgment, in which it is allowed in set-off. If
he shall refuse such transcript as a set-off, he shall so certify on the tran­
script: and return the same to the party who offered it.-Code of 1881, 
§ 1794. 
§ 1806. [1544.] No execution after five years. Execution for the
enforcement of a judgment in a justice's court, may be issued on the appli­ 
cation ot the party entitled thereto, in the manner hereinbefore prescribed;
but after the lapse of five years from the date of the judgment, no execu­
tion shall issue except by leave of the justice before whom such judgment
may be, upon reasonable notice to the defendant.-Code of 1881, § 1795. 
NOTE: See§ 30. 
§ 1807. [1545.] Succeeding justice may issue execution. When
any judgment shall have been rendered by any justice of the peace, and
the same not be satisfied during his continuance in office, and the docket 
of such justice shall have been transferred to another justice, or to the
successor of the justice rendering such judgment, the justice to whom the
docket shall be delivered shall issue execution upon such unsatisfied judg­
ment, in the same manner, and with like effect as if he himself had ren­
dered the judgment.-Code of 1881, § 1796. 
§ 1808. [1546.] Execution by justice of another county on tran­
script of judgment. If the defendant have not goods and chattels in
the county in which judgment was rendered, sufficient to satisfy the ex­ 
ecution, the justice before whom such judgment may be, shall, at the re­
quest of the party entitled, make out a certified transcript of the same,
which may be delivered to a justice in any other county, who shall make
an entry thereof in his docket, and issue execution thereon for the amount
of the judgment, or such part as shall be unsatisfied, with costs as in 
other cases.-Code ef 1881, § 1797. 
§ 1809. [1547.] Execution, form and contents. The execution shall 
be directed ( except when it is otherwise especially provided,) to the
sheriff or any constable of the county where the justice resides; shall be
dated on the day it is issued, and made returnable within thirty days from
the date; and it shall be against the goods and chattels of the person 
against whom the same is issued.-Code :ef 1881, § 1798. 
§ 1810. [1548.] Amount of deb( and fees to be endorsed on exe­
cution. Before any execution shall be delivered, the justice shall state 
in bis docket, and also on the back of the execution, the amount of the
debt, or damages and costs, and of the fees due to each person separately,
and the officer receiving such execution shall indorse the time of the re­ 
ception of the same.-(:ode ef 1881, § 1799. 
§ 1811. [1549.] Execution may be renewed for thirty days. If an
execution be not satisfied, it may, at the request of the plaintiff, be re­
newed from time to time by the justice who issues the same, or by the 
justice to whom his docket is transferred, by an indorsement thereon to
that effect, signed by him, and dated when the same shall be made. If
any part of such execution has been satisfied the indorsement of renewal
shall express the sum due on the execution. Every such indorsement
shall renew the execution in full force in all respects for thirty days, and
no longer; and an entry of such renewal shall be made in the docket of
the justice.-Code of 1881, § 1800. 
§ 1812. [1550.] Notice of sale on execution. The officer, after tak­
ing goods and chattels into his custody by virtue of an execution, shall,
without delay, give public notice by at least three advertisements, put up 
at three public places in the county, of the time and place when and where
they will he exposed for sale. Such notice shall describe the goods and
chattels taken, and shall be put up at least ten days before the day of
sale.-Code of 1881, § 1801. 
§ 1813. [1551.] Sale on execution-Return. At the time and place
so appointed, if the goods and chattels be present for inspection of bid­ 
ders, the officer shall expose them to sale at public vendue to the highest
bidder; be shall return the execution and have the money before the jus­
tice at the time of making such return, ready to be paid over to the per­
sons respectively entitled thereto.-Code of 1881, § '18o2. 
§ 1814. [1552.] Officer selling must not buy. No officer shall di­
rectly or indirectly purchase any goods or chattels at any sale made by 
him upon execution, and every such purchase shall be absolutely void.
-Code of 1881, § 1803. 
§ 1815. [1553.] When execution may issue against the person. If
the action be one in which the defendant might have been arrested upon
a warrant, an execution against the person of such defendant may be is­
sued after the return of an execution against his property unsatisfied in 
whole or in part. An execution against the person may likewise be is­
sued after such return, where the defendant has been arrested upon a war­
rant and not discharged according to law.-Code of 1881, § 1804. 
§ 1816. [1554.] Garnishees maybe summoned to saitisfy judgment. 
If there be no property found, or if the goods and chattels levied on be not
sufficient to satisfy such execution, the officer shall, on demand of the
plaintiff, summon in writing as garnishees, such persons as may be named
to the plaintiff or his agent, to appear before the justice on the return day
of the execution, to answer such interrogatories as may be put to them,
touching their liabilities as garnishees, and the like proceedings shall be
had thereon before the justice to final judgment as in the procedings by
attachment.-Code of 1881, § 1805. 
§ 1817. [1555.] Execution for costs against the prevailing party
after execution returned. Any justice of the peace may issue an ex­
ecution against the prevailing party, to ,collect fees and costs for which 
such party may be liable, after an execution has been first issued against
the other party, and returned" no property found."-Codeof 1881, § 18o6. 
§ 1818. [1556.] Proceedings when property claimed by third party. 
If any property levied on be claimed by any other person than the defend­
ant in the execution, and the claimant make affidavit of his title or right,·
and serve the same upon the sheriff or constable, while the property is in
bis possession, said sheriff or constable shall not be bound to keep- the
property unless the plaintiff on demand indemnify him in the same man- 
ner as provided in this act for cases where property held under attachment
is claimed by persons not parties to the suit and when such claim is made,
the sheriff. or constable shall immediately file the claimant's affidavit with
the justice, and notify the plaintiff thereof, and unless the property be at
once released, the justice shall set the case for trial upon the allegations
of the claimant's· affidavit, and the case shall proceed and be determined
in the same manner as provided in this act for cases where property held
under attachment is claimed by persons not parties to the suit.-Code of 
1881, § 1807. 
§ 1819. [1557.] Claimant not precluded from other remedies. 
Nothing contained in the last section shall be so construed as to prevent
the claimant of property levied on by execution from resorting to any
legal remedy he may choose to pursue, instead of proceeding in the man­
ner therein prescribed.-Code of 18811 § 1808. 
CHAPTER CXXXVIII. 
FORMS IN CIVIL ACTIONS.*
· i 1820. Equivalent forms may be used. 
§ 1820. [1558.] Equivalent forms may be used. The following or
equivalent forms may be used by justices of the peace, in civil actions and 
proceedings under this chapter, to wit:- 
Terri~~in;f ;~s~:::~~~' } ss. 
FORM OF WARRANT 
To the Sheriff or any Constable of said County :
In the name of the United States, you are hereby commanded to take 
the body of C D, if he be found in your county, and bring him forthwith
before the undersigned, one of the justices of the peace in and for said 
county, at his office in , to answer AB, in a civil action; and you
are hereby commanded to give notice thereof to the said plaintiff, or his
agent or attorney ; and have you there and then this writ. 
Given under my hand this day of , 18 . 
Territory of Washington, } ss. · 
County of ..
To.--,------- . 
FORM OF SUBP<ENA. 
J P, Justice of the Peace. 
In the name of the United States, you are hereby required to appear be­
fore the undersigned, one of the justices of the peace in and for said county, 
on the----------~ day of·-·-····' 18 , at o'clock in the noon, 
at his office in , to give evidence in a certain cause, then and there 
to be tried, between AB, plaintiff and CD, defendant, on the part of (the
plaintiff, or defendant as the case may be). 
Given under my hand this day of , 18, .. 
J. P., Justice of the Peace. 
Terri6~1Jn~ !;_~~~~~-~~n,} SS. 
To the Sheriff or any Constable of said County :
Whereas, judgment against C D, for the sum of-------· dollars, and _ 
dollars costs of suit, was recovered on the day of , 18 , before
the undersigned, one of the justices of the peace in and for said county, at 
the suit of AB. These are, therefore, in the name of the United States, 
to command you to levy on the goods and chattels of the said C D ( except­
ing such as the law exempts), and make sale thereof according to law, to
the amount of said sum and costs upon this writ, and the same return to
me in thirty days, to be rendered to the said A B, for his debt, interests 
and costs.
Given under my hand this·-------· day of , 18 . 
J P, Justice of the Peace. 
FORM OF VENIRE FOR A JURY. 
Te~~~-~--~~--~~:;.gton, } ss.
To the Sheriff or any Constable of said County : 
In the name of the United States, you are hereby commanded to sum­
mon six good and lawful men of your county, to be and appear before the
undersigned, one of the justices of the peace in and for said county, on the
__________ day of , 18 , at------·- o'clock in the -------· noon of said
day, at his office in , to make a jury for the trial of a civil action, 
between AB, plaintiff, and CD, defendant; and have you then and there
this writ. 
Given under my hand this day of , 18 . 
J P, Justice of the Peace. 
FORM OF EXECUTION AGAINST THE BODY. 
Terr~~~-~-~~-~::~!;~on,} ss.
To the Sheriff or any Constable of said County. 
Whereas, judgment against C D for the sum of dollars, and for
____________ dollars, costs of suit, was recovered on the day of , 
18 , before the undersigned, one of the justices of the peace in and
for said county, at the suit of AB, and an execution against his property
returned unsatisfied; these are, therefore, in the name of the United States. 
to command you to take the body of the said C D, and him convey and·
deliver to the keeper of the jail of said county, who is hereby commanded
to receive and keep the said CD, in safe custody in prison, until the afore­
said sum, and all legal expenses, be paid and satisfied, or until he be dis­
charged therefrom by due course of law ; and of this writ make due re­
turn within thirty days. 
Given under my hand this day o(_ , 18 . 
J P, Justice of the Peace. 
Te~~i~/!/~~~~~~~-~on, } ss.
To the Sheriff or any Constable of said County. 
Whereas, judgment against C D for the sum of dollars, and for
_____________ dollars, costs of suit, was recovered on the day of__ , 
18 , before the undersigned, one of the justices of the peace in and
for said county, at the suit of AB; and whereas on the day [ef]__ , 
18 , E F became surety to pay said judgment and costs, in _
month from the date of the judgment aforesaid, agreeably to law, in the 
payment of which the said CD and E F have failed; these are, therefore,
in the name, etc., (as in the common form). 
FORM OF ORDER IN REPLEVIN. 
Tetti~/~(~~~~!-~~~on, } ss.
To the Sheriff or any Constable of said County. 
In the name of the United States you are hereby commanded to take the
personal property mentioned and described in the within affidavit, and de­
liver the same to the plaintiff, upon receiving a proper undertaking, unless
before such delivery, the defendant enter into a sufficient undertaking for
the delivery thereof to the plaintiff, if delivery be adjudged. 
Given under my hand this day of , 18 . 
J P, Justice of the Peace. 
FORM OF A WRIT OF ATTACHMENT. 
Teto~rr/!(~~~~-i-~~on, } ss.
To the Sheriff or any Constable of said County. 
In the name of the United States you are hereby commanded to attach,
and safely keep, the goods and chattels, moneys, effects and credits of
CD (excepting such as the law exempts), or so much [ thereef] as shall 
satisfy the sum of dollars, with interest and cost of suit, in whose-
soever hands or possession the same may be found in your county, and to 
provide that the goods and chattels so attached may be subject to further
proceeding thereon as the law requires; and of this writ make legal ser­
vice and due return. 
Given under my hand this day of , 18 . 
J P, Justice of the Peace. 
FORM OF UNDERTAKING FOR ARREST. 
Whereas, an application has been made by AB, plaintiff, to JP, one of
the justices of the peace in and for county, for a warrant to ar- 
rest CD, defendant founded upon an affidavit of the said plaintiff setting
forth that C D, (here state the cause for arrest) ;-Now, therefore, we, AB,
plaintiff, and E F, acknowledge ourselves bound to C D, in the sum of 
_____________ dollars, to pay all costs that may be awarded to the said defend­
ant, and all damages which he may sustain by reason of the arrest, not 
exceeding the sum of dollars.
Dated this ·---····--·- day of , 18 . A B, E F. 
FORM OF UNDERTAKING IN REPI.RVIN. 
Whereas, A B, plaintiff, has commenced an action before J P, one of
the justices of the peace in and for------------ county, against C D, defend­ 
ant, for the recovery of certain personal property, mentioned and described
in the affidavit of the plaintiff, to wit: (here set forth the property claimed).
-Now, therefore, we, A B, plaintiff, E F and G H, acknowledge our­ 
selves bound unto C D in the sum of···········- dollars, for the prosecution
of the action for the return of the property to the defendant, if return thereof 
be adjudged, and for the payment to him of such sum as may for any
cause be recovered against the plaintiff. 
Dated th1 day of , 18 . A B, E F, G H. 
FORM .OF UNDERTAKING IN ATTACHMENT. 
'Whereas, an application has been made by A B, plaintiff, to J P, one
of the justices of the peace in and for county, for a writ of attach- 
ment against the personal property of C D, defendant;-Now therefore,
we, AB, plaintiff, and E F, acknowledge ourselves bound to C D in the 
sum of dollars, that if the defendant recover judgment in this ac-
tion, the plaintiff will pay all costs that may be awarded to the defendant, 
. and all damages which he may sustain by reason of the said attachment
and not exceeding the sum of dollars. 
Dated the,·---------· day of , 18 . AB, E F. 
FORM OF UNDERTAKING TO DISCHARGE ATTACHMENT. 
Whereas, a writ of attachment has been issued by JP, one of the jus-
tices of the peace in and for county, against the personal property 
of CD, defendant, in an action in which AB is plaintiff;-Now, therefore,
we, C D, defendant, E F and G H, acknowledge ourselves bound unto J 
K, constable, in the sum of . dollars, (double the value of the prop-
erty), engaging to deliver the property attached, to wit: (here set forth a
list of articles attached), or pay the value thereof to the sheriff or consta­ 
ble to whom the execution upon a judgment obtained by plaintiff in the
aforesaid action may be issued. 
Dated this ---··-··--·· day of , 18 . C D, E F, G H. 
FOR:\! OF UNDERTAKING TO INDEMNIFY CONSTABLE ON CLAIM OF PROP·
ERTY BY A THIRD PERSON. 
Whereas, L M, claims to be owner of and have the right to posses­
sion of certain personal property, to wit: (here describe it) which has been 
taken by J K, constable in ·----------· county, upon an execution by J P,
justice of the peace in and for the county of , upon a judgment 
obtained by A B, plaintiff, against C D, defendant;-Now, therefore, we,
· A B, plaintiff, E F and G H, acknowledge ourselves bound unto the said 
J K, constable, in the sum of dollars, to indemnify the said J K
against such claim. . A B, E F. 
-Code of 1881, § 1885. 
§ 1821. [1559.J When justice shall issue warrant of arrest. Any
justice shall, on complaint on oath in writing before him, charging any
person with the commission of any crime or misdemeanor, of which he 
has jurisdiction, issue a warrant for the arrest of such person, and cause
him to be brought forthwith before him for trial.-Code of 1881, § 1888. 
§ 1822. [1560.] Proceedings when offense. committed in view of
justice. When any offense is committed in view of any justice he may, 
by verbal direction to any constable, or if no constable be present, to any
citizen, cause such constable or citizen to arrest such offender, and keep
him in custody for the space of one hour, unless such offender shall
sooner be taken from such custody by virtue of a warrant issued on com­
plaint on oath. But such person so arrested, shall not be confined in jail,
nor put upon any trial, until arrested by virtue of such warrant. And on
the return of any warrant issued by him, it shall be the duty of the jus­
tice to docket the cause, and unless continuance be granted, forthwith to
hear and determine the cause, and either acquit, convict and punish or
hold to bail the offender, if the offense be bailable and prove to be one
which should be tried in the district court, or in default of bail, commit
him to jail, as the facts and law may justify.~Code of 1881, § 1889. 
§ 1823. [1561.] Defendant or state may demand jury trial. In all.
trials for offenses within the jurisdiction of a justice of the peace, the de­ 
fendant or the state may demand a jury. which shall consist of six, or a
less number, agreed by the state and accused. to be impaneled and
sworn as in civil cases; or the trial may be by the justice. When the
complaint is for a crime or misdemeanor in the exclusive jurisdiction of
the superior court, the justice hears the case as a committing magistrate,
and no jury shall be allowed.-Laws of 1891, p. 18, § 1. 
§ 1824. [ 1562.] Proceedings on verdict of guilty. Such justice or
jury, if they find the prisoner guilty, shall assess his punishment; orif, in 
their opinion, the punishment they are authorized to assess is not adequate
to the offense, they may so find, and in such case the justice shall order
such defendant to enter recognizance to appear in the superior court
of the county, and shall also recognize the witnesses, and proceed as in
proceedings by a committing magistrate.-Laws ef 1891, p. 18, § 2. 
§ 1825. [1563.] Defendant may plead guilty. The defendant may
plead guilty to any offense charged.-Code of 1881, ~ 1892. 
§ 1826. [1564.] Justice to summon injured person and others­
Attachment. In all cases arising under this chapter, if the offense in­
volve injury to a particular person who is within the county, it shall be
the duty of the justice of the peace to summon the injured person, and
all others whose testimony may be deemed material, as witnesses at the 
trial, and to enforce their attendance by attachment if necessary.-Laws
of 1891, p. 18, § 3. 
§ 1827. [1565.] No judgment without evidence. No justice shall
assess a fine or enter a judgment therein, until a witness or witnesses 
have been examined to state the circumstances of the transaction. -Laws 
of 1891, p. 18, § 4. 
§ 1828. [1566.] Continuance may be granted as in civil cases­
Oosts. Continuance may be granted either on application of the defend­
ant or the prosecuting witness, under the same rules as in civil cases ;
the cost of such continuance shall abide the event of the prosecu­ 
tion in all cases, and the justice shall recognize the defendant and
the witnesses to appear from time to time, in the same manner as is pro­
vided in other criminal examinations before him.-Laws ef 1891, p. 
19, § 5· .,
§ 1829. (1567.] Justice may commit defendant to jail-One day 
for every three dollars. In all cases of conviction, unless otherwise
provided in this chapter, the justice shall enter judgment for the fine and
costs against the defendant, and may commit him to jail, to be placed at
hard labor until the judgment is satisfied, or the payment thereof be
secured, as provided by section [fourteen hundred and ninety-seven] [.fif­
teen hundred and sfrry-ezght] (1829], and further proceedings therein shall
be had in like cases in the district court; but the defendant shall not be
imprisoned for a longer aggregate time than one day for every three dol­
lars of the fine and costs ; and a defendant who has been committed shall
be discharged at any time upon the payment of such part of the fine and
costs as remains unpaid, after deducting from the whole amount any pre­
vious payment and three dollars for every day he has been imprisoned 
upon the commitment.-Laws of 1891, 19, § 6. 
§ 1830. (1568.] Stay of execution-Procedure. Every defendant
may stay the execution for the fine and costs for thirty days, by procuring
sufficient sureties, to be approved-by the justice, to enterintorecognizance
before him for the payment of the fine and costs; the entry of such recog­
nizance shall be made on the docket of the justice, and signed by the
sureties, and shall have the same effect as a judgment, and if the same be
not paid in thirty days, the justice shall proceed as in like cases in the dis- 
trict court.-Code of 188r, § 1897. · 
The -~~~-~~-~-~-~::!~on, } ss. 
To the Sheriff or any Constable of said County :
Whereas, A B bas this day complained in writing under oath to the un­ 
densigned, one of the justices of the peace in and for said county, that on
the-----------· day of', , 18 .... , at··········-· in said county, (here insert 
the substance of the complaint, whatever it may be).-Therefore, in the
name of the State of Washington, you are commanded forthwith to appre­
hend the said C D, and bring him before me, to be dealt with according to 
law.
Given under my hand this--------···· day of·······--···' 18 ..... 
JP, Justice of the Peace. 
FORM OF SEARCH-WARRANT. 
The :~~~~-~~- !oa:~~~on, } ss, 
To the Sheriff or any Constable of said ~ounty :
Whereas, AB has this day made complaint on oath to the undersigned, 
one of the justices of the peace in and for said county, that the following
goods and chattels, to wit: (here describe them), the property of the said 
A B, have been within days past, or· were on the day of
_________ , by some person or persons unknown, stolen, taken and carried
away out of the possession of the said A B, in the county aforesaid ; and
also that the said A B verily believes that the said goods or a part thereof 
are concealed in or about the house of C D, in said county ( describe the
premises to be searcbed);-Therefore, in the name of the State of Wash­
ington, you are commanded that, with the necessary and proper assistance,
you enter into the said house (describe the premises to be searched), and
then diligently search for the said goods and chattels; and if the same,
or any part thereof, be found on such search, bring the same, and also
the said CD forthwith before me, to be disposed of according to law. 
Given under my hand this·-···-···· day of·-········' 18 . . 
J P, Justice of the Peace. 
FORM OF COMMITMENT WHERE JUSTICE ON THE TRIAL SHALL FIND THAT 
HE HAS NOT JURISDICTION IN THE CASE. 
The·-~-t-~~~~~-~:~:Y~ton, } ss.
To any Constable and the Keeper of the Jail of said County : 
Whereas, C D of__ etc., has been brought this day before the
undersigned, one of the justices of the peace in and for said county, 
charged on the oath of A B with having, on the day o(__ , 
18 , in said county, committed the offense of, (here state the offense
charged in the warrant), and in the progress of the trial of said charge, 
it appearing to the said justice that the said C D bas been guilty of the
offense of, (here state the new offense found on the trial,) committed. at
the time and place aforesaid ; and whereas the said C D has failed to give 
bail in the sum of dollars, for his appearance to answer at the next
term of the [district] [supen·or] court, as required by me; therefore, in
the name of the State of Washington, etc., (as in the last form), to 
receive the said C D into your custody in the said jail, and him there
safely keep until he be discharged by due course of law. 
Given under my band this. day of. , 18 . 
J P, Justice of the Peace. 
FORM OF WARRANT TO KEEP THE PEACE. 
The 5-~~~~-~~-~:~:~~gton, } ss. 
To the Sheriff or any Constable of said County :
Whereas, A B has this day complained in writing . under oath, to the 
undersigned, one of the justices of the peace in and for said county, that
he has just cause to fear and does fear that C D, ·late of said county, will,
(here state the threatened injury or violence, as sworn to). Therefore, in
the name of the State of Washington you are commanded to apprehend the
said C D, and bring him forthwith before .me, to show cause why he
should not give surety to keep the peace and be of good behavior toward
all the people of this state, and the said AB especially) and further to be
dealt with according to law. 
Given under my hand this. day oC , 18 :. 
J P, Justice of the Peace. 
FORM OF COMMITMENT UPON SENTENCE. 
The Sta~0~~: ~t_i_~~~-~: } ss. 
To any Constable and the Keeper of the County Jail of said County :
Whereas, at a justice's court held at my office in said county, for the 
trial of C D for the offense hereinafter stated, the said C D was convicted
of having on the . day of__ \ 18 , in said county, committed, 
(here state the offense) and upon conviction the said court did adjudge and
determine that the said C D should be imprisoned in the county jail of said
county, for days; therefore, you, the constable are commanded, in 
the name of the State of Washington, forthwith to convey and deliver the
said C D to the said keeper ; and you, the said keeper, are hereby com­
manded to receive the said C D into your custody in said jail and him 
there safely keep until the expiration of said days, or until he
shall thence be discharged by due course of law. 
Dated this day of__ , 18 . 
J P, Justice of the Peace. 
FORM OF CERTIFICATE OF CONVICTION. 
The ~~~!;f of~~~~~~~, } ss.
At a justice's court held at my office in said county before me, one of 
the justices of the peace in and for said county for the trial of CD, for the
offense hereinafter stated, the said C D was convicted of having on the 
____________ day of. , 18 , in said county, committed, (here insert the 
offense) and upon conviction, the said court did adjudge and determine
that the said CD should pay a fine of_ dollars, (or be imprisoned 
as the case may be, ) and the said fine has been paid to me.
Given under my band this-----------· day of _, 18 . 
FORM OF AN EXECUTION. 
Th~~~::yo~r~~i~~on, } ss. " 
i 1832. Complaint of threatened injury-Duty
of justice. 
i 1833. Witnesses' testimony to be reduced to
writing. 
t 1834. Magistrate to issue warrant if danger
apprehended. 
i 1835. Justice to require recognizance when
danger apprehended. 
i 1636. If defendant fail to give recognizance
he shall be committed. 
i 1837. When there is not just cause-costs. 
CHAPTER CXLI. 
J P, Justice of the Peace. 
To the Sheriff or any Constable of said County:
Whereas, at a justice's court held at my office in said county for the trial 
of C. D. for the offense hereinafter stated, the said C. D. was convicted of
having on the ·--. day of , 18 , in said county, com- 
mitted, (here state the offense), and upon conviction the said court did
adjudge and determine that the said C~ D. should pay a fine of-----------· 
dollars, and -----------· dollars costs: and whereas, the said fine and costs
have not been paid;-------· these are, therefore, in the name of the State of 
Washington, to command you to levy on the goods and chattels, etc. ( as·
in execution in civil cases).-Laws ef 1891, p. 19, § 7. 
PROCEEDINGS TO PREVENT THE COMMISSION OF CRIME. 
I 1838. Costs how paid. 
I 1839. Defendant discharged on giving se­
curity. 
I 1840. Recognizance transmitted and filed
within ten days. 
i 1841. Recognizance without process in case of
threats or violence. 
i 1842. Court may remit penalty on recog­
nizance. 
i 1843. Surety may surrender principal. 
~- 1832. [1570.] Complaint of threatened injury-Duty of justice. 
Whenever complaint shall be made to any such magistrate, that any per­
son has threatened to commit an offense against the property or person of
another, the magistrate shall examine the complaint, and any witness who 
may be produced on oath, and reduce such complaints to writing, and the
same shall be subscribed by the complainant.e+Cees o_/ 1881, § 1904. 
§ 1833. [1571.] Witnesses testimony to be reduced to writing. 
It shall be the duty of every magistrate examining a person charged with
an offense, or with an intention to commit an offense, to examine all the
witnesses he shall deem material, and reduce their testimony to writing, a 
copy of which, whether the accused is discharged, committed, or held to
bail, or shall take an appeal, he shall transmit to the clerk of the court
having jurisdiction of the offense.-Laws of 1891, p. 22. § 8. 
§ 1834. [1572.] Magistrate to issue warrant if danger appre­
bended. If, upon the examination, it shall appear that there isjustcause
to fear that such offense may be committed, the magistrate shall issue a 
warrant under his hand, reciting the substance of the complaint and re­
quiring the officer to whom it may be directed, forthwith to apprehend the 
person complained of and bring him before such magistrate or some other
magistrate, or court having jurisdiction of the cause.-Codeof 1881, § 19o6. 
§ 1835. [1573.] Justice to require recognizance when danger ap­
prehended. The magistrate before whom any person is brought upon
charge of having made threats as aforesaid, shall, as soon as may be, hear 
and examine the complaint. And if it shall appear that there is just cause
to fear that any such offense will be committed by the party complained
of he shall be required to enter into recognizance with sufficient sureties,
in such sum as the magistrate shall direct, towards · all the people of the
territory, and especially towards the person requiring such security, for
such term as the magistrate shall order, not exceeding one year, but he
shall not be ordered to recognize for his appearance' at the district court unless
he is charged with some offense· for which he ought to be held to answer
at said court.-Code of 1881', § 1907. 
§ 1836. [1574.] If defendant fail to give recognizance he shall be
committed. If the person so ordered to recognize, shall fail to enter into 
such recognizance, the magistrate 'shall commit him to the county jail
during the period for which he was required to give security, or until he
shall so recognize, stating in the warrant the _ cause of commitment
with the sum and time for which security was required.-Code oj 1881, 
§ 1908.
§ 1837. [1575.] When there is not just caua~osts. If, upon ex­ 
amination, it shall appear that there is not just cause to fear that any such
offense will be committed by the party complained of, he shall be forthwith
discharged; and if the magistrate shall deem the complaint unfounded,
frivolous or malicious, he may order the complainant to pay the costs of
prosecution, who shall thereupon be answerable to the magistrate and the
officer for their fees, as for his own debt.-Code of 1881, § 1909. 
§ 1838. [1576.] Costs how paid. When an order respecting the costs
is made by the magistrate, they shall be allowed and paid in the same 
manner as costs before justices in criminal prosecutions; but in all cases
where a person is required to give good security for the peace, or for bis
good behavior, the magistrate may further order that the costs of prosecu­
tion, or any part thereof, shall be paid by such person, who shall stand
committed until such costs are paid, or he is otherwise legally discharged. 
-Code of 1881, § 1910. 
§ 1839. [1577.] Defendant discharged on giving security. Any
person committed for not finding sureties or refusing to recognize as re­
quired by the magistrate, may be discharged by any judge or justice of the 
peace; on giving such security as was required.-Code of 1881, § 19-r5. 
§ 1840. [1578.] Recognizances transmitted and flied within ten
days. Every recognizance taken pursuant to the foregoing provisions
shall be transmitted to the superior court for the county within ten days, 
and shall be there filed of record by the clerk.-Laws of 1891, p. 22, § 9.
§ 1841. [1579.] Recognizance without process in case of threats 
or violence. Every person who shall, in the presence of any magistrate,
or before any judge of a court of record, make an affray, or threaten to kill
or beat another, or to commit any violence or outrage against his person
or property, and every person who, in the presence of such judge or mag­
istrate, shall contend with hot and angry words, to the disturbance of the
peace, may be ordered, without process or other proof, to recognize for
keeping the peace or being of good behavior for a term not exceeding
three months, and in case of refusal, may be committed as before directed.
-Laws of 1891, p. 22, § 10. 
§ 1842. [ 1580.] Court may remit penalty on recognizance. When­
ever upon a suit brought on any such recognizance, the penalty thereof 
shall be adjudged forfeited, the court may remit such portion of the pen­
alty, on the petition of any defendant, as the circumstances of the case
shall render just and reasonable.-Code of 1881, § 1918. 
~ 1843. [1581.] Surety may surrender principal. Any surety in
recognizance to keep the peace, or for good behavior, or both, shall have 
the same authority and right to take and surrender his principal as if be
had been bail for him in a civil cause, and upon such surrender, shall be
discharged and exempt from all liability for any act of the principal, sub­
sequent to such surrender, which would be a breach of the condition of
the recognizance, and the person so surrendered may recognize anew, with
sufficient sureties,. before any justice of the peace, for the residue of the
term, and thereupon shall be discharged.-Code of 1881, § 19.19. 
EXAMINATION OF PERSONS CHARGED WITH CRIME, 
i 1844. Procedure when complaint made to
magistrate. 
e 1845. When defendant escapes sheriff may
follow and re-arrest. 
i 1846. Recognizance with or without exam-
ination. · 
i 1847. Adjournment, etc., not to exceed ten
days. 
i 1848. Testimony to be written and signed, 
i 1849. Persons may be held to bail or com­
mitted to answer information. 
~ 1850. When no offense proved, etc.-Costs. 
i 1851. Proceedings when offense within jus­
tice's jurisdiction. 
i 1852. If required, bail must justify. 
i 1853. When defendant to be discharged on
bail-Condition of reccgnlsance. 
i 1854- Magistrates may call others to assist
them. 
i 1856. 
i 186o. 
i 1861. 
I 1862. 
Rttog'llizance of witnesses to appear in
the superior court.
Witnesses may be required to give
sureties on recognizance.
R.ecogn.izancc of minor or married
women fifty dollars-Substitute.
Recognizance of witnen - Commit­
ment-Deposition.
Justice to return certified copy of
proceedings within ten days.
If injured party acknowledge satiafac.
tion defendant discharged.
Default on recognizance 1JO be recorded
and action commenced.
Magistrate shalt furnish abstract of
costs. 
§ 1844. {1582.] Procedure when complaint made to magistrate. 
Upon complaint being made to any justice of the peace, or judge of the
district court, in open court, or in vacation, that a criminal offense has
been committed, he shall examine on oath the complainant, and any wit­
ness provided by him, and shall reduce the complaint to writing, and shall
cause the same to be subscribed by the complainant, and if it shall appear
that any offense has been committed of which the district court has ex­
clusive jurisdiction, the magistrate shall issue a warrant reciting the sub­
stance of the accusation, and requiring the officer to whom it shall be
directed forthwith to take the person accused and bring him before the
person issuing the warrant, unless he shall be absent or unable to attend
thereto, then before some other magistrate of the county, to be dealt with
according to law, and in the same warrant may require the officer to sum­ 
mon such witnesses as shall be therein named, to appear and give evi­
dence on the examination.-Code of 1881, § 1921. 
See Const. Art. I, § 22. · 
CHAPTER CXLII. 
§ 1845. [1583.] When defendant escapes sheriff may follow and
re-arrest. If any person against whom a warrant may be issued for an
alleged offense, committed in any county, shall either before or after the 
issuing of such warrant, escape from, or be out of the county the sheriff or
other officer to whom such warrant mav be directed, may pursue and ap­
prehend the party charged, in any county in this territory, and for that
purpose may command aid, and exercise the same authority as in his own
county.-Code of 1881, § 1922. 
§ 1846. [1584.] B.ecognisance with or without examination. The
magistrate before whom such accused person shall be brought, when the 
offense is bailable, may, at the request of such person, with or without ex­
amination, allow. him to enter into recognizance with sufficient sureties, to
be approved by the magistrate, conditioned for his appearance in the
superior court having jurisdictionoftheoffense.-Lawsof1891, p. 22, § 11. 
§ 1847. [1585.] Adjournment etc. not to exceed ten days. If the
defendant shall not enter into recognizance with sureties, the magistrate 
shall proceed to hear and examine the complaint, and may adjourn the
examination from time to time, not exceeding in all ten days from the
time such defendant shall have been brought before him, and in case of
such adjournment, the magistrate may, if the offense be bailable take
a recognizance with sufficient sureties for the appearance of the defendant
at such further examination; andif he fail to enter into such recognizance,
he shall be ordered into custody until the time appointed for such exami­ 
nation.-Code of 1881, § 1924. 
§ 1848. [1586.] Testimony to be written and signed. The testi­
mony of the witness examined, shall be reduced to writing by the magis­
trate, or under his direction, when he shall think it necessary, and shall 
be signed by the witnesses.-Code of 1881, § 1933. 
§ 1849. [1587.] Persons may be held to bail or committed to an­
swer information. Any person who may according to law be committed
to jail, or become recognized, or held to bail with sureties for his appear­
ance in court to answer to any indictment, may in like manner so be com­ 
mitted to jail, or become recognized and held to bail for his appearance to
answer any information or indictment, as the case may be.-Laws of 
18901 p. IOI, § 5· 
§ 1850. [1588.] When no offense proved, etc.-Oosts. If it should
appear upon the whole examination that no offense has been committed,
or that there is not probable cause for charging the defendant with an
offense, he shall be discharged, and if in the opinion of the magistrate,
the complaint was malicious or without probable cause, and there was no
reasonable ground therefor, the costs shall be taxed against the party
making the complaint.-Code of 1881, § 1925. 
§ 1851. [1589.] Proceedings when. offense within justice's juris­
diction. If it shall appear that an offense has been committed of 
which a justice of the peace bas jurisdiction, and one which would be
sufficiently punished by a fine not exceeding one hundred dollars, if the
magistrate having the complaint is a justice of the peace, he shall cause
the complaint to be ordered and proceed as in like cases before a justice of
the peace; or, if any othermagistrate, he shall certify the papers, with a
statement of the offense appearing to be proved, to the nearest justice of
the peace, and shall by order, require the defendant and the witnesses to
enter into recognizances with sufficient sureties to be approved by the mag­
istrate, for their appearance before such justice at the time and place
stated in th«; order ; and such justice shall proceed to the trial of the action
as if originally commenced before him.-Laws of 1891, p. 23, § 12. 
§ 1852. [15go.] If required, bail must justify. Bail shall, when re-
1uired, justify as in civil cases.-Code of 1881, § 1169. 
§ 1853. [1591.] When defendant to be discharged on bail-Con­
dition of recognizance. If it appear that a bailable offense has been
committed, the magistrate shall order the defendant to enter into recog­ 
nizance, with sufficient sureties, for his appearance in the superior court to
answer the charge, and if he shall not do so, or the offense be not bailable,
he shall commit him to jail. The justice of the peace who committed the
person, or the judge of the superior court to which the party is held to
answer, may admit to bail in the amount required and approve the sure­
ties. The recognizance shall be conditioned in effect that the defendant
will appear in the superior court to answer said charge whenever the same
shall be prosecuted, and at all times, until discharged according to law.
render himself amenable to the orders and process of the superior court,
and, if convicted, render himself in execution of the judgment.-Laws of 
1891, p. 23, § 13.
§ 1854. [1592.] Magistrates may call others to assist them. Any 
magistrate to whom complaint is made, or before whom any defendant is
brought, may associate with himself one or more magistrates of the same
county, and they may, together, execute the powers and duties before
mentioned; but no fees shall be taxed for such associates.-Code of 1881, 
§ 1928. 
§ 1855. [1.593.] Recognizance Qf witnesses to appear in the supe­
rior court.· Where the person arrested is held to bail, or committed to jail,
or forfeits his recognizance, the magistrate shall recognize the witnesses 
for the prosecution to be and appear in the superior court to which the
party is recognized, bailed, or committed, whenever their attendance shall
be required.-Laws of 1891, p. 23, § 14. 
§ 1856. [1594.] Witness may be required to give sureties on
recognizance. If the magistrate shall be satisfied that there is good cause 
to believe that any such witness will not perform the condition of his
recognizance unless other security is given, such magistrate may order the
witness to enter into recognizance with such sureties as may be deemed
necessary for his appearance at court.-Code of 1881, § 1930. 
§ 1857. [1595.] Recognizance of minor or married woman, fifty 
dollars-Substitute. When any married woman or a minor is a mate­
rial witness, any other person may be allowed to recognize for the appear­
ance of such witness, or the magistrate may, in his discretion, take the
recognizance of such married woman or minor in a sum not exceeding fifty
dollars which shall be valid and binding in law, notwithstanding the
disability of coverture or minority.-Code of 1881, § 1931. 
§ 1858. (1596.] Recognizance of witnesses-Commitment-Deposi­
tions. All witnesses required to recognize with or without sureties shall,
if they refuse, be committed to the county jail by the magistrate, there to 
remain until they comply with such orders or be otherwise discharged
according to law: Provided, That when the magistrate is satisfied that any
witness required to recognize with sareties is unable to comply with such
order, he shall immediately take the deposition of such witness and dis­
charge him from custody. upon his own recognizance. The testimony of
the witness shall be reduced to writing by a justice or some competent
person under his direction, and he shall take only the exact words of the
witness; the deposition, except the cross-examination, shall be in the 
narrative form, and upon the cross-examination the questions and answers
shall be taken in full. The defendant must be present in person when
the deposition is taken, and shall have an opportunity to cross-examine
the witnesses ; he may make any objections to the admission of any part
of the testimony, and all objections shall be noted by the justice; but the
justice shall not decide as to the admissibility of the evidence .. but shall
take all the testimony offered by the witness. The deposition must be
carefully read to the witness, and any corrections be may desire to make
thereto shall be made in presence of the defendant by adding the same
to the deposition as first taken ; it must be signed by the witness, certified by
the justice, and transmitted to the clerk of the superior court, in the same
manner as depositions in civil actions. And if the witness is not present 
when required to testify in the case, either before the grand jury or upon
the trial in the superior court, the deposition shall be submitted to the
judge of such superior court, upon the objections noted by the justice,
and such judge shall suppress so much of said deposition as he shall find
to be inadmissible, and the remainder of the deposition may be read as
evidence in the case, either before the grand jury or upon the trial in the 
court.-Laws of 1891, p. 24, § 15.
~ 1859. (1597.J Justice to return certified copy of proceeding 
within _ten days. It shall be the duty of all magistrates within this
state before whom any person or persons shall be committed or held to
bail to answer to any crime, to return their proceedings, duly certified,
including a copy of ~11 recognizances taken by them, to the clerk of the 
superior court within ten days after the final hearing and commitment, or
holding to bail, as aforesaid; and any justice of the peace who shall fail
or neglect to make such return shall not be entitled to receive any fees or
costs in such case.-Laws of 1891, p. 25, § 16. 
§ 1860. (1598.] If injured party acknowledge satisfaction defend­
ant discharged. When any person shall be committed to prison, or shall
be under examination or recognizance to answer any charge for a mis­
demeanor for which the party injured may have a remedy by civil action, 
except where the offense was committed upon a sheriff or other officer, j us­
tice, or violently, or with intent to commit a felony, if the party injured
shall appear before the magistrate who made the commitment or took the
recognizance, or is conducting the examination, and acknowledge in writ­
ing that he has received _satisfaction for the injury, the magistrate may,
in his discretion, on payment of all costs which may have accrued, discharge
the recognizance, or supersede the commitment by an order under his
hand, and may also discharge all recognizance and supersede the commit­
ment of all witnesses in the case.-Codeof 1881, § 1935. 
§ 1861. '(1599.J Default on recognhance to be recorded, and action
commenced. When any person under recognizance in any criminal pros­
ecution, either to appear and answer before a justice, or to testify in any
court, shall fail to perform the condition of any recognizance, his default 
shall be recorded ; and it shall be the duty of the presecuting attorney to
proceed at once, by action against the person bound by recognizance, or
such of them as he may elect.-Code of 1881, § 1936. 
§ 1862. (16oo.] Magistrate shall furnish abstract of costs. In all
cases where any magistrate shall order a defendant to recognize for his ap­ 
pea~nce before a justice of the peace, or the district court, he shall forward 
with the papers in the case, an abstract of the costs that have accrued in
the case, and such costs shall be subject to the final determination of the 
case.-Code of 1881. § 1937. 
f 1863- Wbenjusticemaypunishforcontempt. 
f 1864. Punishment for contempt, fine or im­
prisonment. 
i 1865. Defense must be beard before warrant 
issues. 
§ 1863. (16o1.] When justice may punish for contempt. In the
following cases, and no others, a justice of the peace may punish for con- 
tempt:- . 
1. Persons guilty of disorderly, contemptuous and insolent behavior
towards such justice while engaged in the trial of a cause, or in rendering 
judgment, or in any judicial proceedings, which tend to interrupt such
proceedings, or impair the respect due to his authority. 
2. Persons guilty of any breach of the peace, noise or disturbance, tend­
ing to interrupt the official proceedings of such justice. 
3. Persons guilty of resistance or disobedience to any lawful order or
process made or issued by him.-Code ef 1881, § 1842. 
§ 1864. (16o2.] Punishment for contempt-Fine or imprisonment. 
Punishment for contempt may be by fine, not exceeding twenty-five dol­
lars, or by imprisonment in the county jail not exceeding two days, at the
discretion of the justice, unless otherwise provided by statute.-Code of 
1881, § 1843. 
§ 1865. (1603.] Defense must be heard before warrant issues. No
person shall be punished for a contempt before a justice of the peace until
an opportunity shall have been given to him to be heard in his defense; 
and for that purpose the justice may issue his warrant to bring the offender
before him.-Code of 1881, § 1844. 
§ 1866. [ 1604.] Summary proceedings when offender present. tf 
the offender be present, he may be summarily arraigned by the justice,
and proceeded against in the same manner as if a warrant had been pre­
viously issued, and the offender arrested thereon.-Code of 1881, § 1845. 
§ 1867. f1605.] l'ormofwarrantforcontempt. Thewarrantforcon­
tempt may be in the following form :- 
Territory of Washington, }
·------- County ss. 
To the Sheriff or any Constable of said County :
In the name of the United States, you are hereby commanded to appre­ 
hend AB, and bring him before J P, one of the justices of the peace of
said county, at his office in said county, to show cause why he should not 
be convicted of a contempt alleged to have been committed on the _
day of , A. D. 18 , before the said justice, while engaged as a 
justice of the peace in a judicial proceeding.
Dated this-------- day of , A. D. 18 
-Code of 1881, § 1846. 
CHAPTER CXLIII. 
CONTEMPT PROCEEDINGS. 
i 1866. Proceedings when offender preseat, 
i 1867. Form of warrant for contempt. 
i 1868. Form of judgment. 
i 186g. Warrant of commitment. 
J P, Justice of the Peace. 
§ 1868. (1606.] l'orm of judgment. Upon the conviction of any per­
son for contempt, an entry thereof shall be made in the docket of such jus­
tice, stating the particular circumstances of the offense, and the judgment
rendered thereon, and may be in the following form :- 
Terr!~~~-~~-~c~!!~f on, } ss.
Whereas, on the day of. , A. D. 18 , while the undersigned, 
one of the justices of the peace for said county, was engaged in the trial of
an action between C D, plaintiff, and E F, defendant, in said county, A
B, of the said county, did interrupt the said proceedings and impair the
respect due to the authority of the undersigned, by (here describe the cause
particularly.) And whereas, the said A B was thereupon required by the
undersigned to answer for the said contempt, and show cause why he
should not be convicted thereof. And whereas, the said A B did not show
cause against the said charge-be it therefore ordered that the said A B is
adjudged to be guilty and is convicted of the contempt aforesaid, and is ad­ 
judged by the undersigned to pay a fine of----------- dollars, (or to be im­
prisoned, etc.) . 
Dated this ---------· day of , A. D. 18. . 
-Code of 1881, § 1847. JP, Justice of the Peace.
§ 1869. (16o7.] Warrant of commitment for contempt. If any 
person convicted of a contempt be adjudged to be imprisoned, a warrant
of commitment shall be issued by the justice. If he be adjudged to pay a
fine, a process may be issued to collect the same ; and when so collected, it
shall forthwith be paid by the justice into the county treasury.-Code of 
188 I, § 1848. 
i 1870. Who are vagrants. 
i 1871. Complaint against vagrants-Proceed.­ 
ings. 
CHAPTER CXLIV. 
PROCEEDINGS AGAINST VAGRANTS. 
i 1872. Vagrant may be arrested without war-
rant. 
i 1873- Officer must keep vagrant till morning. 
ij 1874- Justice may require bond of vagrant. 
i 1875. Justice to file record=-Comttritment. 
i 18i6, Acts of vagrancy deemed breach of
bond. 
i 1877. New sureties may be required or va­
grant be committed. 
f 1878. Discharge on bond of good behavior. 
i 1879. Trial in superiorcourt-Defendantma:,
demand a jury. 
i 188o. Court may order imprisonment for six
months. 
i 1881. Court way order material to be fur­ 
nished for labor. 
a 188:z. One half of proceeds to vagrant. 
§ 1870. (1608.] Who are vagrants. The following persons are va­
grants: All person(s] who tell fortunes, or who keep houses where lost and 
stolen goods may be found; all common prostitutes, and keepers ofbawdy­
houses or houses for the resort of prostitutes; all habitual drunkards,
gamesters, or other disorderly persons; all persons wandering about and
having no visible calling, or business to maintain• themselves; all persons
going about as collectors of alms for charitable institutions under any false,
or fraudulent pretense; all persons playing or betting in any street or pub­
lic or open place, at, or with any table or instrument of gaming at any
game or pretended game of chance.-Code of 1881, § 1271. 
§ 1871. [reoc.] Complaint against vagrants-Proceedings. Upon
complaint made on oath to any justice of the peace against any person as 
being such vagrant within his local jurisdiction, as defined in the last pre- 
ceding section, he shall issue a warrant for the arrest of such person, and
the complaint, warrant, arrest and examination shall be governed by. the
provisions of this code relating to the examination and commitment for
trial of persons charged with offenses, so far as the same may be applica­ 
ble.-Laws of 1891, p. 25, § 17. 
§ 1872. [1610.] Vagrant may be arrested without warrant. All
peace-officers shall arrest any vagrant whom they may find at large, and
take him before some justice of the peace, of the county;, city, or town in 
which the arrest is made.-Code of 1881, § 1273. 
§ 1873. [1611.] Officer must keep vagrant till morning. If the
arrests authorized in the last two sections, are made during the night, the
officer must keep the person arrested in confinement until the next mom­ 
ing.-Code of 1881, § 1274. 
§ 1874. [1612. Justice may require bond of vagrant. If it appear
by the confession of such person,· or by competent testimony, that such 
person is a vagrant, the justice of peace before whom he is brought, may
require of such person bond, with sufficient surety, for good behavior
for the term of three months thereafter.-Code of 1881, § 1275. 
§ 1875. (1613.] Justice to fl.le record in superior court-Commit­
ment; The justice shall make up, sign and file with the clerk of the 
district court of the county, a record of conviction of such person as a va­
grant, specifying generally the nature and circumstances of the charge,
and shall, in default of such security being given, by warrant under his
hand, commit such vagrant to the county jail of the county, city, or town,
as the case may be, until such security be found, or such vagrant be dis­
charged, according to law.-Code of 1881, § 1276. 
§ 1876. [1614.] Acts of vagrancy deemed breach of bond. The
committing of any of the acts which constitute such person so bound a 
vagrant, shall be deemed a breach of the condition of such bond for good
behavior. =Code of 1881, § 1277. 
§ 1877. [1615.] New sureties may be required, or vagrant be com­
mitted. On a recovery upon any such bond, the court before which such
recovery may be had, may, in its discretion, either require new sureties 
for good behavior, or inay commit such vagrant to the county jail of the
county for any time not exceeding six months.-Code of 1881, § 1278. 
§ 1878. [1616.] Discharge on bond of good behavior. Any person
committed to jail for not finding sureties for good behavior may be dis­ 
charged by any magistrate upon giving such sureties for good behavior as
were originally required of such person.-Code of 18811 § 1279. 
§ 1879. [1617.] Trial in superior court-Defendant may demand
a jury. The district court to which the papers are returned, shall, on 
demand of the defendant. impanel a jury to inquire into and determine
the truth of the charge made against him ; and the rules and regulations
of law governing said court in the trials of misdemeanors shall be applica­
ble to, and govern it in the trial herein contemplated. If no jury be de­
manded, the district court may revise such conviction and discharge such
vagrant from the bond, or confinement absolutely, or upon sureties for
good behavior, in its discretion.-Code of 1881, §§ 1280-1281. 
§ 1880. [1618.] Oourt may order imprisonment for six months. 
Such district court may, in its discretion, order any such vagrant to be 
kept in the county jail for any time not exceeding six months at hard
labor.-Code of 1881, § 1282. 
§ 1881. [1619.] Court may order material to be furnished for 
labor-Expense, how paid. If there be no means in such jail for em­
ploying offenders at hard labor, such court may direct the keeper thereof
to furnish such employment as it shall specify to such vagrant as may be
committed thereto, either by a justice or any court, and for that purpose
to purchase any necessary raw materials, and implements, not exceeding
such amount as the court shall prescribe, and to compel· such persons to
perform such work as shall be allotted to them. The expenses incurred
in pursuance of such order shall be audited by the board of [counry] com­
missioners of the county, and paid out of the county treasury.-Code of 
1881, §§ 1283-1284. 
§ 1882. [1620.] One-half of proceeds to vagrant. One-half of the
net [of] proceeds of such labor shall be paid to the person earning the same, 
upon his discharge from imprisonment, and the other half shall be paid in­
to the county treasury for the use of the county.-Code of 1881, § 1285. 
i 1883. Subpcena compels attendance of wit-
nesses within twenty miles. 
i 1884. How and by whom served. 
i 1885. Attachment for witnesses. 
l 1886. Service of attachment. 
~ t88i. 
e 1888. 
f 188g. 
i 18go. 
Damages if witness neglect to appear.
Party to action may also be witness.
Rebuttal by adverse testimony.
If party refuse to testify, judgment 
may be taken against him. 
l 1891. When parties may be examined as wit­
nesses. 
* 1892. Either party may cause deposition to be 
taken-When. 
~ 18g3- How taken and served. 
e 1894. Depositions to be read if witness ab­
sent. 
i 18g5. Change of venue as in superior court. 
~ 1883. Subpmna compels attendance of witnesses within twenty
miles. A subpcena issued by a justice of the peace shall be valid to com­
pel the attendance of a witness in the justice's court, if such witness be 
within twenty miles of the place of trial.-Code of 1881, § 1869. 
§ 1884. Bow and by whom served. A subpoena may be served by
any person above the age of. eighteen years, by reading it to the witness,
or by delivering to him a copy at his' usual place of abode.-Code of 1881, 
§ 1870. 
'J.1ITLE V. 
EVIDENCE, CERTIORARI AND APPEALS. 
---, 
CHAPTER 145. Witnesses and Depositions.
CHAPTER 146. Certiorari.
CHAPTER 147. Appeals from Justice Courts.· 
CHAPTER CXLV. 
WITNESSES AND DEPOSITIONS. 
§ 1885. Attachment for witnesses. Whenever it shall appear to the
satisfaction of the justice, by proof made before him, that any person, 
duly subpeenaed to appear before him in an action, shall have failed, with­ 
out a just cause, to attend as a witness, in conformity to such subpcena, 
and the party in whose behalf such subpeena was issued, or his agent,
shall make oath that the testimony of such witness is material, the justice
shall have the power to issue an attachment to compel the attendance of
such witness : Provided, That no attachment shall issue against a witness
in any civil action, unless his fees for mileage and one day's attendance have
been tendered or paid in advance, if previously demanded by such witness
from the person serving the subprena.-Code of 1881, § 1871. 
§ 1886. Service of attachment. Every such attachment may be di­
rected to any sheriff or constable of the county in which the justice resides,
and shall be executed in the same manner as a warrant ; and the fees of the
officer for issuing and serving the same shall be paid by the person against
whom the same was issued, unless he show reasonable cause, to the satis­ 
faction of the justice, for his omission to attend ; in which case the party
requiring such attachment shall pay all such costs.-Code of 1881 § 1872. 
§ 1887. Damages if witness neglect to appear. Every person sub­
pcenaed as aforesaid, and neglecting to appear, shall also be liable to the
party in whose behalf he 'may have been subpcenaed, for all damages which 
such party may have sustained by reason of his non-appearance : Provided,
That such witness had the fees allowed for mileage and one day's attend­
ance paid, or tendered him, in advance, if demanded by him at the time of
the service.-Code of 1881, §' 1873. 
§ 1888. Party to action may also be witness. A party to an action
may be examined as a witness, at the instance of the adverse party, and 
for that purpose may be compelled in the same manner, and subject to the
same rules of examination, as any other witness, to testify at the trial, or
appear and have his deposition taken.-Code of 1881, 1874. 
§ 1889. Rebuttal by adverse testimony. The examination of a party
thus taken, may be rebutted by adverse testimony.-Code of 1881, § 1875. 
§ 1890. If party refuse to testify, judgment may be taken against
him. If a party refuse to attend and testify at the trial, or give his depo­
sition before trial, when required, his complaint, answer or reply, may be 
stricken out, and judgment taken against him.-Code o.f 1881, ~ 1876. 
§ 1891. When parties may be examined as witnesses. A party
examined by an adverse party. may be examined on his own behalf, in 
respect to any matter pertinent to the issue. But if he testify to any new
matter, not responsive to the inquiries put to him by the adverse party, or
necessary to qualify or explain his answer thereto, or to discharge, when
his answer would charge himself, such adverse party may offer himself
as a witness, and he shall be so received.-Code of 18811 § 1877. 
§ 1892. Either party may cause deposition to be taken-When. 
Either party, in an action depending before a justice of the peace, may
cause the deposition of a witness therein to be taken, when such witness re­
sides, or is about to go more than twenty miles from the place of trial, or is so
sick, infirm or aged, as to make it probable that he will not· be able to
attend at the trial.-Code of 1881, ~ 1878. 
§ 1893. How taken and served. The notice shall be served, and
the deposition taken, certified, and returned, according to the law regulat­
ing the taking of depositions to be read in the district court.-Code of 
188r, § 1879. 
§ 1894. Deposition to be read if witness absent. The justice shall
allow every deposition taken, certified and returned according to law, to
be read on the trial of the cause in which it is taken, in all cases where the 
same testimony, if given verbally before him, could have been received;
but no such deposition shall be read on the trial, unless it appears to the
justice, that the witness, whose deposition is so offered: 
1. Is dead, or resides more than twenty miles from the place of trial; or, 
2. Is unable, or cannot safely attend before the justice, on account of
sickness, age or other bodily infirmity. 
3. That be has gone more than twenty miles from the place of trial,
without the consent or collusion of the party offering the deposition.­
Code of 18811 § 1880. 
§ 1895. Change of venue as in superior court. Change of venue
may be allowed for the same causes for which they are allowed in the dis­
trict court.-Code of 1881, § 1881. 
i 18g6. Certiorari to superior court. 
e 18<J7. Application within twenty days. 
e 18g8. Clerk shall issue writ. 
i 1899. Writ of certiorari stays proceedings. 
i 1900. Duty of party serving writ. 
CHAPTER c·XLVI.· 
CERTIORARI. 
I 1901. Power of superior court to compel re-
turn. 
i 1902. Hearing in superior court, 
i 1903. Judgments and executions. 
f 1904. Restitution tr judgment reversed. 
§ 1896. [1621.] Certiorati to superior court. If any person shall
conceive himself injured by error in any process, proceeding, judgment or
order given by any justice of the peace within this territory, it shall be
lawful for such person to remove such process, proceeding, judgment or .
order to the district court as hereinafter provided.-Code of 1881, § 1850. 
, § 1897. [1622.] Application within twenty days. Within twenty
days after the rendition of the judgment, of if the error be committed 
'·after judgment, then within twenty days after such error was committed,
__the party applying for such certiorari, his agent or attorney, shall file in 
{he office of the clerk of the district court for the proper county, an affida­
. vit, stating that in his belief there is reasonable cause for granting such 
'certiorari, for error in such judgment or proceeding, (setting forth the
: ground of error alleged,) and that the application is made in good faith,
.ind not for the purpose of delay, and further> shall execute a bond to the 
adverse party, with one or more sureties, to be approved by the clerk in
double the amount of the judgment and costs rendered before the justice,
-to the effect that the.party applying, will prosecute the writ of certiorari 
... to final judgment, and will abide any order the court may make therein.
-Codeof 1881, § 1850. - 
§ 1898. [1623.] Clerk shall tssue writ. Upon complying with the
rovisions of the preceding section, the party applying shall be entitled to 
uch writ; which shall be issued by the clerk, as of course, and no appli-
tion to the district court, or the judge thereof, shall be necessary in the 
premise~.-Code of 1881, § 1851. · 
§ 1899. [1624.] Writ of certiorari stay proceedings. The writ of
certiorari shall be served on the justice within ten days after it has been
issued; and if a bond be executed in pursuance of the last section, and a 
certificate of the clerk to that effect be served on the justice, all further 
proceedings in law in such case shall cease ; and if execution shall have
issued on such judgment, the justice shall immediately recallthe same.­ 
Code of 1881, § 1852. 
§ 1900. (1625.] Duty of party serving writ. Upon the service of a
writ of certiorari to reverse a judgment, it shall be the duty of the party 
serving the same, to deliver at the same time to the justice, a copy of the
affidavit on which the certiorari was procured, and the justice shall make
a special return as to all the facts contained in such affidavit and of the
proceedings in the case, and annex a copy thereof to the writ, and shall
file the same with the clerk of the district court within ten days after the
service of the writ, together with all the papers in the action; and he shall
also certify the time when the writ was served upon him.-Code of 18811 
~ 1853. 
§ 1901. (1626.] Power of superior court to compel return. The
district court shall have power to compel such justice to make or amend 
such return by rule, attachment or mandamus, as the case may require.
Code of 1881, § 1854. 
§ 1902. (1627.] Hearing in superior court. When the writ of certi­ 
orar i and return shall be filed with the clerk, the case may be brought on
for argument before the district court at any time thereafter, according to
the statutes relating thereto.-Code of 1881, § 1855. 
§ 1903. (1628.] Judgments and executions. ';rhe district court
shall, after hearing the case, give judgment as the right of the matter
may appear, without regarding technical omissions, imperfections, or de­
fects in the proceedings, before the justice which did not affect the merits
and may affirm or reverse the judgment in whole or in part, and issue ex­
ecution as upon other .judgments rendered before said court.-Code of 
1881, § 1856.
Taylor v. Ringer, 3 W. T., 539; 19 P., 147. 
§ 1904. (1629.] Restitution if judgment reversed. If a judgment
rendered before a justice be collected, and afterwards be reversed by the 
court above, such court shall award restitution of the amount so collected,
with interest from the time of collection, and execution may issue there­
for.-Code of 1881, § 1857. 
i 1905. 
I 19()6. 
f 1907. 
i 19()8. 
i 1912. 
i 1913- 
Appeal to superior court.
How appeals are taken.
Proceedings stayed after bond given.
Penon or property released on certifi- 
cate of appeai.
Appellant must furnish transcript 
within ten days.
Issue tried in superior court.
Justice may be compelled to furnish 
transcript.
Appeal not dismiseed for defective bond.
When judgment to be against appel­ 
lant and sureties. 
CHAPTER CXLVU. · 
APPEALS FROM JUSTICES' COURTS. 
~ 1917. 
i 1918. 
i 1919. 
Appeal from judgment of conviction­
Imprisonment or bond.
Appellant not required to advance fees 
in criminal cases.
Witnesses to be recognized- Justice to
certify record.
Appeals from magistrate's orders.
Proceedings in superior courts.
Failure of appellant to prosecute ap­
peal. 
§ 1905. (1630.] Appeal to superior court. Any person considering
himself aggrieved by any judgment or decision of a justice of the peace 
in· a civil action or proceeding may, in person or by his agent, appeal
therefrom to the superior court of the same county where the judgment
was rendered or the decision made.-Laws of 1891, p. 66, § 1. 
§ 1906. (1631.J Bow appeals are taken. Such appeal shall be taken
by filing a notice of appeal with the justice and serving a copy on the 
adverse party or his attorney, and unless such appeal be by a county, city
or school district, filing a bond or undertaking, as herein provided, within
twenty days after the judgment is rendered or the decision made. No
appeal, except when such appeals are by a county, city or school district,
shall be allowed in any case unless a bond or an undertaking shall be
executed on the part of the appellant and filed with and approved by the
justice, with one or more sureties, in the sum of one hundred dollars, to
the effect that the appellant will pay all costs that may be awarded against
him on the appeal; or if a stay of proceedings before the justice be
claimed, except by a county, city or school district, a bond or undertak­
ing, with two or more sureties to be approved by the justice, in a sum
equal to twice the amount of the judgment and costs, to the effect that
the appellant will pay such judgment, including costs, as may be rendered
against him on the appeal.-Laws of 1891. p. 66, § 2. 
McKilmer v, Manchester, I W. T., 255. Mullen v. Mullen, I W. T., 192. 
§ 1907. (1632.] Proceedings stayed after bond given. Upon ap­
peal being taken and a bond filed to stay all proceedings, the justice shall 
allow the same and make an entry of such allowance in his docket, and
all further proceedings on the judgment before the justice shall thereupon
be suspended ; and if in the mean time execution shall have been issued, the
justice shall give the appellant a certificate that such appeal has been
allowed.-Laws of 1891, p. 67, § 3. • 
§ 1908. (1633.] Person or property released on certificate of ap­
peal. On such certificate being presented to the officer holding the ex­
ecution, he shall forthwith release the property of the defendant that may
have been taken on execution; and if the body of the defendant have 
been taken on execution, he shall be· discharged from imprisonment.­
Code of 1881, § 1862. 
~ 1909. (1634.] Appellant must furnish transcript within ten days. 
Within ten days after the appeal has been taken in a civil action or pro­
ceeding, the appellant shall furnish the superior court with a transcript of
all entries made in the justice's docket relating to the case, together
with all the process and other papers relating to the action, and file( d] with
the justice, which shall be certified by such justice to be correct; and upon
the filing of such transcript, the superior court shall become possessed of
the cause, and shall proceed in the same manner, as near as may be, as in
actions originally commenced in that court, except as herein otherwise
provided.-Laws oj 1891, p. 67, § 4. 
State v. Campbell, 32 p. 97. 
§ 19IO. (1635.] Issue tried in superior court. The issue before the
justice shall be tried in the district court without other or new pleadings,
unless otherwise directed by the court.-Code of 1881, § 1864. 
State ex rel. Bagley v. Super. Ct. King Co., 29 p. 213; 3 W., 705. Newberg v.
Farmer, 1 \V. T., 182. 
§ 191 1. (1636.] Justice may be compelled to furnish transcript. 
Upon an appeal being taken and allowed the superior court may, by rule 
and attachment, compel the justice to make and deliver to the appellant
a certified transcript of the proceedings, upon paying to such justice the
fees allowed by law for making such transcript, and whenever the court is
satisfied that the return of the justice is substantially erroneous or defective,
it may, by rule and attachment, compel him to amend the same.-Laws 
ef 1891, p. 67, § 5· 
§ 1912. [1637.] Appeal not dismissed for defective bond. No ap­
peal allowed by a justice shall be dismissed on account of the bond being de­
fective, if the appellant will, before the motion is determined, execute and 
file in the district court such a bond as he should have executed at the
time of taking the appeal, and pay all costs that shall have accrued by
reason of such defect.-Code of 18811 § 1866. 
§ 191~. (1638.] When judgment to be against appellant and sure­
ties. In all cases of appeal to the district court, if on the trial anew in
such court, the judgment be against the appellant, in whole or in part,
such judgment shall be rendered against him and his sureties in the bond 
for the appeal.-Code of 1881, * 1867. 
§ 1914. (1639.] Appeal from judgment of conviction-Imprison­
ment, or bond. Every person convicted before a justice of the peace of
any offense may appeal from the judgment, within ten days thereafter, to
the superior court. The appeal shall be taken by orally giving notice 
thereof at the time the judgment is rendered, or by serving a written no­
tice thereof upon the justice at any time after the judgment, and within
the time allowed for taking the appeal; when the notice is given orally,
the justice shall enter the same in his docket. The appellant shall be
committed ti> the jail of the county until he shall recognize or give a bond
to the state, in such reasonable sum, with such sureties as said justice may
require, with condition lo appear at the court appealed to, and there pros­
ecute his appeal, and to abide the sentence of the court thereon, if not re­
vised by a higher court.-Laws of 1891, p. 67, § 6. 
§ 1915. (1640.] Appellant not required to advance fees in crimi­
nal cases-Failure to prosecute. The appellant in a criminal action
shall not be required to advance any fees in claiming his appeal nor in
prosecuting the same; but if convicted in the appellate court, or if sen­ 
tenced for failing to prosecute his appeal, he may be required as a part of
the sentence to pay the costs of the prosecution. If the appellant shall fail to
enter and prosecute his appeal he shall be defaulted of his recognizance, 
if any was taken, and the superior court may award sentence against him
for the offense whereof he was convicted in like manner as if he had been
convicted thereof in that court ; and if be not then in custody process may
be issued to bring him into court to receive sentence.-Laws of 18911 p. 
68, § 7·
§ · 1916. [1641.] Witnesses to be recognized-justice to certify 
record. Upon an appeal being taken in a criminal action the justice shall
require the witnesses to give recognizances for their appearance in the su­
perior court, or, if they are not present indorse their names on the copy of pro­
ceeding. He shall on such appeal make and certify a copy of the con­
viction and other proceedings in the case, and transmit the same, together
with the recognizance and an abstract bill of the costs, to the clerk of the
court appealed to, who shall issue a subpcena for the witnesses, if they are 
not under recognizance.-Laws of 1891, p. 87, § 8. 
§ 1917. [1642.] Appeals from magistrates' orders. An appeal may 
be taken from the order of a magistrate requiring a person to give security
to keep the peace or for good behavior. Such appeal shall be taken in the
same manner and subject to the same conditions as appeals from justices'
courts in criminal actions, and the magistrate may require recognizances
of the appellant and the witness as in appeals in such criminal actions.­ 
Laws of 1891, p. 68, ~ 9. 
§ 1918. [1643.] Proceedings in superior court. The court before
which such appeal is prosecuted, may affirm the order of the justice or dis­
charge the appellant, or may require the appellant to enter into a new 
recognizance, with sufficient sureties, in such sum and for such time as the
court shall think proper, and may also make such order in relation to the
costs of prosecution as may be deemed just and reasonable.-Code of 1891, 
§ 1913. 
§ 1919. [1644.] Failure of appellant to prosecute appeal. If any
party appealing from such order of a magistrate shall fail to prosecute his
appeal his recognizance shall remain in full force and effect as to any 
breach of the condition, without an affirmance of the judgment or order
of the magistrate, and also shall stand as security for costs which shall be
ordered by the court appealed to be paid by the appellant.-Laws of 
1891, p. 68, § IO. 
