AN ACT

'10 EPLIFY AND AZBEDGE THE PRACTICE, PLEADIHG8 AND
PROCEEDINGS OF THE COURTS OF THIS STATE.

Wnnnms, it is expedient that the:";p'tesent_ forms of actions and pleadings in cases at comnfs5_n°;1aw' shpnld be‘
abolished; that the disiinction between ,1eg°a1 and e-quilt,
able remedies should no longer continue; ai,id;tbat an otfnt-’.
form course of proceeding, 1!] all cases,,.°sh'oz'1}'d pa ’estab-'
lished: Therefore, -' :'-‘..3.°'-  ° ° The pe le of the State qf Weeemein‘; ‘»;°1‘e}.»;°ae{3zéd in
Senate an Assembly, do enact as follows: General Definitions and Dioieioou.

Sncrxox 1. Division of remedies.
2. Deiinition of an action.

. Deiinition of a special proceeding.
Division of actions.

. Deiinition of Criminal actions.
Definition of a civil action.

. Civil and criminal remedies not merged.
. To what actions this act relates.

oo~1_czo-yum

Snowton 1. Remedies in the courts of ‘justice are divided into: ‘
1. Actions:
2. Special proceedings.

SE0. 2. An action is an ordinary proceeding in a court of
justice, by which a party prosecutes another party for the
enforcement or protection of a right, the redress or prevention of a wrong, or the prevention of a public offence.

SEQ. 3. Every other remedy is a special proceeding.

SEO. 4. Actions are of two kinds.
1. Civil:
2. Criminal:

SEO. 5. A criminal action is prosecuted by the peo le
of the state, as a party against a person charged wit a
public offence, for the punishment thereof.

Smo. 6. Every other is a civil action.

SEO. 7. Where the violation of a right admits of both a
civil and criminal remedy, the right to prosecute the one
is not mer ed in the other. ‘SEO. 8. ' his act relates to civil actions in the courts of
this state commenced after the tenth day of December
eighteen hundred and fifty six, except ‘where otherwise
provided herein.

. ,- .5‘-E  TITLE 1.
  ‘.7 Of Justice Courts.

Sndi*fQ's.‘3, Jurisdiction of Justice not changed.
“.2 .‘_~‘'..  Rhles of pleadings.
'- ' 1. Pleadings.
2. Pleadings, how put in.
3. Complaint.
4. Answer.
5. Pleadings, what to contain.
6. Demurrer. .
7. Proceedings in demurrer.
8. Plaintif to prove his case if defendant do not appear.

9. Proceedings in action on account of instrument for
the payment of money only.

“10. Variance when disregarded.

11. Amending pleadings.
12. Execution when issuable and returnable.

13. Execution on J ustice’s judgment docketed.
14. Requiring party to exhibit his account.
15. Certain provisions made applicable to these courts.

SE0. 9. The courts of justice of the peace shall continue
to exercise the jurisdicion now vested in them respectively, and the proceedings in such courts shall be as now
prescribed by law, except as otherwise provided by this

act.
SE0. 10. The following rules of pleading and proceeding shall be observed in the courts of justice of the peace:

1.

The pleadings in these cases are;
1. The complaint of the plaintiff ;
2. The answer by the defendant.

2.

The pleadin s may be oral or in writing; if oral, the
substance sh be entered by the justice in his docket;
if in writing, they shall be filed by him, and a reference
to them be made in the docket.

3.

The complaint shall state in a plain and direct manner, the facts constituting the cause ot action.

4.

‘ The answer may contain a denial of the complaint, or
of any part thereof, and also notice in a plain and di, rect manner of any facts constituting a defence.

l

5.

Pleadings are not required to be in any particular
form, but must be such as to enable a person of common
understanding to know what is intended.

6

‘ Either party may demur to a pleading of his adversary, or any art thereof, where it is not sufiiciently explicit to enab e him to understand it, or it contain no cause
of action or defense, although it be taken as true.

7.

If the court deem thejobjection well founded, it shall
order the pleading to be amended, and if the party refuse
to amend the defective pleading shall be disregarded.

8.,

In case a defendant does not appear and answer, the
 cannot recover without pnovinghis case, except
in cases provided by law.

9.

In an, action or defence founded upon an account or
an instrument for the payment of money only, it shall be
sufficient for a garty to deliver the account or instrument
to the court an to state that thereie due to -him fromzthe
adverse fiparty a specified sum which he claimsrto recover
or set 0 .

10.

A variance between the proof on the trial and. the
allegation in a pleading shall be disregarded as immaterial,
unless the court shall be satisiied that the adverse party
has been misled to his prejudice thereby.

11.

The pleadings may be amended at any time bedore
the tria or during the trial or upon appeal, when,~by-such
amendment, substantial justice will be promoted. If the
amendment be made after the joining of the issue, and it
be madeto appear to the satisfaction of the court by oath
that an adjournment is necessary to the adverse party, in

consequence of such amendment an adjournmentshall be.

granted. The court may, also, in its discretion, require
as a condition of an amendment, the payment of costs’ to
the-adverse party, to be fixed by the court; but no.amen.dment shall be allowed after a witness is sworn on a trial,
when an adjournment thereby will be made necessary.

12.

Execution may be issued on a judgment heretofere
or hereafter rendered in a justice court, at any time within
two years after the rendition thereof, and shall be returnable thirty days from the date of the same.

13

If the judgment be docketefl, with the clerk of the
circuit court, the execution sha 1 beissued by him to the

sheriff of the county and have the same eifect, and be ex-,

‘I

coated in athe~.samc.manusr% as other executions and». judg»
nnnterot tiheoirouit.-court. - ‘ ‘ f. 14. — 

The court ma so at the 'oining ‘of isssue, require 7‘ ‘
eitherparty, atithi request of] the other, at:that or soars
other s ecifned time, to exhibit his account or demandgor
state t e nature thereof as far forth as may be in: his
power, and in case of his default-, preclude him from‘ 
‘deuce off such parts thereof as shall not «have became

exhibited or -stated: A *

15

The. provisions of n this act respecting forms" of . ac»
tions, parties to actions, and the examination of parties

and witnesses shall apply to courts of justices of the

peace.

TITLE 2.

0f to forms qf am‘; Act/iom.

Sharron‘ ll. Distinction between ‘actions at ‘law, and suits in equity
and form of all such actions and suits abolished.
12. Parties to an action, how-designated.
13. Actions on judgment, when  brought.
1!: ' Feigned issues‘abo1ishdd’and order for trialsubstitutcd.

SEO. 11. The dis incstion between actiogs at law and
suits in equity, and t e forms of all suchactlons and suits
heretofore existing, are abolished; and there shall be in
this state, hereafter, but‘ one form of action for the enforcement or protection of A private "rights and’ the ‘redress of
private wron gs, which shall be denominated a civil action-. .

SEOL 12. In-suchastion, theparty; complaining, shall be
known an the ;p1aint.ifi‘, and the adverse party as the defendant. , n

SEO. 13. No action shall be brought upon ajudgment rendered in any court of this state, except a court of the jus-»

tics of the peace, between the same parties, without leave
of the court, for -good’ cause shown on notice to the adverse party; and no action on a judgment rendered by a
justiceof the peace shall be brought in ‘the same county

within two years after its rendition, except in cases of his
death, resignation, incapacity to act, or removal fromthe
county, or that the process was not personally served on
the defendant, or on all the ‘defendants, or in case of the
deathof some of the parties, or where the docket or record st.‘ such judgment is or shall have been lost or destro e '

no. 14. Feigned issues are abolished, and instead thereof, in the cases where the power now exists to order —a
feigned issue, or when a question of fact,_ not put in issue
by the leadings, is to be tried by a jury. An order for
the tri may be made, stating distinctly and plainly the
question of fact to be tried, and such order shall be the
only authority necessary for a new trial.

TITLE 3.

0f the parties to 0'e"vil Actions.

81011011 15. Action to be in the name of the real party in interest.
16. Assignment of a thing in action net to prejudice a
defence.
17. Executor or Trustee may sue without the persons heneiicially interested.
18. When a married woman is party, the husband to be
joined, except, &c. i
19. When husband cannot be joined, must sue by next
' friend.
,20. Infant to appear by guardian.
A , 21.. Who may be joined as plaintifs.
22. Who may be joined as defendants.
23. Parties united in interest, when to be joined and when‘
one or more may sue and defend for the whole.
24. Plaintif may sue in one action, all the parties to commercial paper.
25. Actions when not to abate by death, marriage or other
disability, and proceedings in such case.
26, Court when to decide controversy, or to order other
. parties to be brought in. ‘Proceeding instead of bill, I. . of interpleeder.

SE0. 15. Every action must be prosecuted in the name I
of the real party in interest, except as otherwise provided f
in section seventeen; but this section shall not be deemed
to authorize the assignment of a thing in action not arising
out of a contract. ‘ '

SE0. 16. In case of an assignment of a thing‘ in action,
the action of the assignee shall be ‘without prejudice to
any set off or other defence existing at the time of or
before notice of the assignment, but this section shall not‘
apply to a negotiable promissory note or bill of exchange
transferred in good faith, and upon good consideration
before due. ,

SE0. 17. An executor or administrator, a trustee of an
express trust, or a person expressly authorized by statute,
may sue without joining with him the person for whose
benefit the action is prosecuted; a trustee of an express
trust, within the meaning of this section, shall be construed to include a person with whom or in whose name
a contract is made for the beneiit of another.

SEO. 18. Whena married woman is a party, her husband must be joined with her, except that: 1. When the action concerns her seperate property, she
may sue alone. ,

.2. When the action is between herself and husband,
she‘ may sue, or be sued alone.

SE0. 19. But where the husband cannot be joined with
her, as herein provided, she shall prosecute‘ and defend
by her next friend.. 4

SE0. 20. When an infant is a party, he must appear by
his next friend'or guardian as now provided by law.‘

SE0. 21.‘ All persons having an interest in the subject
of the action and in obtaining the relief demanded, may,
be joined as plaintiffs, except as otherwise provided in
this title.

SE0. 22. Any person may be made a defendant who

has or claims an interest in the controversy, adverse to the.

plaintiif, or who is a necessary party to a complete ‘determination or settlement of the questions involved therein.

SE0. 23. Of the parties to the action. those who are
united in interest must be joined as plaintiffs or defendants; but if the consent of any one, who shall have been

joined as plaintiffs, cannot be obtained, he may be made‘

a defendant, the reason thereof being stated in the complaint, and when the question is one of a common or
general interest of many persons, or when the parties are

very numerous, and it may be impracticable to brin
them all before the court, one or more may sue or-defen
for the benefit of the whole. .
See. 24. Persons severally liable upon the same obligation or instrument, including the parties‘ to bills of exchange and promissory notes, may all, or any of them, be
included in the same action, at the option of the plaiutiif.
Sun. 25. No action shall abate by the death, marriage,
or other disability of a party, or by the transfer of any
interest therein, if the cause of action survive or continue.
In case of death, marriage or other disability of a party,
the court, on motion at any time within one year thereafter or afterwards, on a supplemental complaint, may
allow the action to be a continued by or against his representative or successor in interest. In case of any
other transfer of interest, the actionshall becontinuedrin
the name of the original party, or. the court may allow the
person to whom the transfer is made, to be substituted in
the action. '
— S30. 26. The court may determine any controversy
between. the parties before it, when it can be done without
prejudice to the rights of others or .by saving their rights,
-but when a complete determination of the controversy
cannot be had withoutthe presence of other parties, the
court shall order them to be brought in ; and when in an
action for the recovery of real or personal property, a
person, not a party to the action, but having an interest
in the subject thereof, makes application to the court to
be made a party, it, may order him to be brought in by
the proper amendment. A defendant, against whom an
‘action is pending, upon a cantract, or for specific, rea1,‘or
personal property, may at any time before, answer upon.
affidavit, that a person, not a party to the action, and without collusion with him makes a ainst him a demandifor
the same debt or property, upon us notice to such person,
and the adverse party apply to the court for an order to
substitute_ such person in his lace, and discharge him
from liability to either party, on is depositing in court the
amount of the debt, or delivering the property-or its value
to such person as the court may irect, and the court may,
in its discretion, make the’ order. n

TITLE4. \

Of the place qf trial qf Civil Actions.

SIB-rrerr-27. Certain aeionseterbe tried where? tlre~subjeot»is~=situ~
ated. ‘
28. Other actions where the cause arose.
29. Other actions according, to the residence of the parties
unless changed on demand. of defendant.
30. In what cases placerot-‘ trialmay be-. changed.
31. Where place of trial is changed; paperseto be transu ferret! also.

See. 27.: Actions forthe following. causes must be tried
in the county in which the subject of the action or some
part thereof is situated, subject to the power of the court
to change the place of trial in the cases provided by statute-:.

1. For the recovery of real property, or of an estateor
iIk$6nBst.therein=,. or for the determination in any form of
such niglrtor interest, and for injuries to real property.

’ 2. For thelprotection of real property.

3. For the foreclosure of a mortgage of real property.

4. For the recovery of personal property distrained
for any cause.

SEO. 28. Actions for the following causes must be tried
in the county where the cause or some part thereof arose,
subject to the like powers of the court to change the
place of trial in the cases provided by statute:

1. For the recovery of a penalty or forfeiture imposed
by statute, except that when it is imposed for an offence
committed on a lake, river, or other stream of water, situated in two or more counties, the action may be brought
in any county bordering on such lake, river, or stream
where the offence was committed.

2. Against a public officer, or person specially appointed to execute his duties, for an act done by him in virtue of his office, or against a erson who, by his command,
or in his aid, shall do any ing touching the duties of
such oiiicer.

SEO. 29. In all other cases, the action shall be tried in
the county in which the parties, or any of them, shall reside at the commencement of the action; or if none of the

parties shall reside in the state, the same may _be tried in

any county which the plaintiE' shall designate 1n his complaint, subject, however, to the power of the court to
change the place of trial in the cases provided by the
statute. If the county designated for that purpose in the
complaint, be not the (proper county, the action may, notwithstanding, be trie therein, unless the defendant, before the time for answering expire, demand, in writing,
that the trial be had in the proper county, and the place

of trial be thereupon changed by consent of parties, or

by order of the court as provided in this section.
SEO. 30. The court may change the place of trial in the
following cases:
* 1. Where the county designated for that purpose in the
complaint, is not the proper county.

2. Where there is reason to believe that an impartial
trial cannot be had therein.

8. When the convenience of witnesses, and the ends of

justice would be promoted by the change.

81:0. 31. When the place of trial is changed, all other
proceedings shall be had in the county to which the place
of trial is changed, unless otherwise rovided by the consent of the parties in writing duly led, or order of the

court, and the papers shall be fnled or transferred accordingly. TITLE 5.

Of the maxrmer of commenchtg Ovivil Actions.
_, ;-9 
Slcrtou 32. Actions—how commenced.

33. Summons, requisite of.

34. Notice to be inserted in certain actions.

35. Complaint need not be served with summons. In such
case summons must state where it is, or it will be
filed ; when must be served; when notice of object
of suit may be served with summons.

36. Defendant unreasonably defending when to pay costs.

37. Notice of pendency of action affecting title to real proerty.

38. Summons—by whom served.

39. Summons—how served and returned

40. Publication when defendant cannot be found. Aflidavit
what to contain, in what cases publication may be
made, what the order shall contain, personal service
of summons and complaint equivalent to publication,
when defendant may be allowed to defend, bonds
for restitution in all such cases complaint to be iirst
filed.

41. Proceedings when there are several defendants and
part only are served.
42. When service complete in case of publication.
43. Service of summons, how proved.
44. When jurisdiction of an action acquired.

Site. 32. Civil actions in the courts of records of this
state shall be commenced by the service of a summons‘
with or without seal. ‘

SEO. 33. The summons shall be subscribed by the plain~
tiifor his attorney, and directed to the defendant, and.

_shall require him to answer the complaint, and serve a

copy of his answer on the person whose name is subscribed
to the summons at a place within the state to beitherein
s eciiied, in which there is a post office, within twenty

ays after the service of the summons, exclusive of the
day of service.

Site. 34. The plaintiff shall also insert in the summons
a notice in substance as follows :

1. In an action arising on contract for the recovery of
money only, that he will‘ take judgment for a sum specified
therein, if the defendant fail to answer the complaint in
twenty days after the service of the summons.

2. In other actions, that if the defendant shall fail to’

answer the complaint within twenty days after service of
the summons, the plaintiff will apply to the court for the
relief demanded in the complaint.

Sm.-35. A-copy of the complaint ‘need not be served
with theasummons. Insuch case the summons shall state
where the complaint is, or will be filed. And if the de
fendant, within twenty days thereafter, in person or by
attorney, demand, in writing, a copy of the complaint,

specif mg a place within the state where it may be

serve ; a copy of it shall be served within twenty da s
thereafter accordingly; and after such service, the efendant shall have twenty days to answer; but only one
copy need be served on the same attorney. In the case
of a defendant against whom no personal claim is made
inan action, the plaintiff may deliver to such defendant,
with a summons, a notice subscribed by the plaintiff or
his attorney, setting forth the general object of the action.
A brief description of the property affected by it, if it
affect specific, real, or personal property, and that no personal claim is made against such defendant, in which
case no copy of the complaint need"be served on such
defendant, unless within the term for answering, he shall,
in writing, demand the same.

SEO. 36. If a defendant on whom such notice is served,
unreasonably defend -the action, he shall pay costs to the
p1aintiE.

SEO. 37. In an action affecting the title to real property,
the plaintiff at the time of filin the complaint, or at any
time afterwards, may file wit the clerk of the circuit
court of each county in which the property is situated, a.
notice of the pendency of the action, containing the
names of the parties, the object of the action, and a descri tion of the property in that county affected thereby,
an if the action be for the foreclosure of a mortgage,
such notice must be hled twent days before judgment,
and must contain the date of t e mortgage, the parties.
thereto, and the time and lace of recordin the same.
From the time of filing on y, shall the pen ency of the

action be ‘constructive notice to ‘a ‘purchaser -or incumbraneer of the property affected thereby.

‘SEO. 88. The summons may be served by thesheriif of
countyiwherethe ‘defendant may be found, or by any
other person not a party to the action.

The service shall‘ bemade, and thesunrmons returned,
with proof of the service, to the person -whose name is
subscribed thereto, with all reasonable diligence.

The person subscribing the summons may, at his option,-by an endorsement on the -summons, fix a time for
the service thereof, and the servicethen shall be'- made
accordingly. .- ‘ _

Sec. 89. The summons shall be served by delivering a
copy thereof -as follows : l

1. ' If the suit be against a corporation to the president
or other head of the corporation, secretary, cashier, treasurer, director, or managing agent thereof, but such service
can be made in respect to aforeigncorporation only when
it has property within this state, or the cause of action
arose therein.

2. If against .a minor, under the age of fourteen years,
to such minor personally, and also to his father, mother
or guardian, or if there be none within the state, thento
any person having the care and control of such minor, or

with whom he shall reside, or in ‘whose service he shall

be employed.

3. Ifagainsta person judicially declared’ to be of unsound mind, or incapable of conducting his own afairs in
consequence of habitual drunkenness, and forwhom a committee has been appointed, to such committee, and to the
defendant personally.

4. In all other cases to the defendant personally, or if
not found, by leaving a copy thereof at his usual place of
abode, in presence or some one of the family of suitable
age and discretion who shall be informed of the contents
thereof.

SEO. 40. When the erson on whom the service of the
summons is to be ma e, cannot after due diligence “be
found within the state, and that fact shall appear by ailidavit to the satisfaction of a court or a judge thereof, or a
county judge or court commissioner, and it shall in like
manner. appear that a cause of action exists against the
defendant in respect to whom the service is to be made,’
or that he is‘ a necessary or proper party to an action relating to real property in this state, such court or judge

may grant an order that the. service be made by..the pub;
lication of a summons in either of the following cases: 1. Where the defendant is a foreign cor oration and
has property within this state or the cause 0 action arose
therein. . . '

2. When the defendant being a resident of this state
has departed therefrom with intent to defraud his creditors or avoid the service of a summons, or keeps himself
concealed therein with the like intent. A

3. Where he is a non—resident but has property therein,
and the action is on contract, and the court has jurisdiction of the subject of the action.

4. Where the subject of the action is real or personal
property in this state, and the defendant has or claims
a lien or interest, actual or contingent therein, or the re
lief demanded consists wholly or partly in excluding the
defendant from any interest or lien therein. 5. Where the action is for divorce in the cases prescribed by law:

The order shall direct the publication to be made in one
newspaper, to be designated as most likely to give notice
to the person to be served, and ‘for such length of time as
shall be deemed reasonable, not less than once a week for
six weeks. A j. ,

In case of publication, the court or judge shall also direct a copy 0 the summons and complaint to be forthwith deposited in the post office, directed to the person to
be served, at his place of residence, unless it appears that
such residence is neither known to the party making the
application, nor can with reasonable di igence be ascertained by him.

When the publication is ordered, personal service of a
copy of the summons _and_ complaint out of the state shall
be equivalent to publication and deposit in the post ofiice.

If the summons shall not be personally served on a defendant, nor received-by such defendant, through the post
office, in the cases provided for in this secticn,_he, or his
representatives _shall, on application and suiiicient cause
shown, at any time before judgment be allowed to defend
the action; and except in actions for divorce, the defendant or his representatives may, in like manner, upon good
cause shown, be allowed to defend after judgment, or at
any time within one year_a_fter notice thereof, nd within
three years after its rendition, on such terms s shall be
just, except in actions for divorce; and if the defence

be successful,’ andtlre judgment or any part thereof: shall
have been collected or otherwise ‘enforced, such restitution may thereupon be compelled as the court shall direct;
and the court may require bonds to be given for sueh restitution before execution is issued, as is now required by
law, but the title to property sold under such judgment,
to apurchaser in good faith, shall _ not thereby be affected;
and in all cases where publication is made, the complaint
shall be first filed, and the summons as published shall
state the time and place of such filing;

Sec. 41. When the action is against two or morusde’
fendants, and the summons is servedonone or more but
not on all of them, the plaintiff mayjproceed as follows:

1. If the action be against severa persons jointly indebted upon a contract, he , may proceed against the
defendant served, unless the court shall otherwise direct;
or, I ~
\ 2. In an action against defendants severally liable, he
mayiproceed against the defendant; or defendants served
in the same manner as if such defendant or defendants
were the only parties roceeded against.

3. If all the defen ants have been served, judgm nt
may be taken against any or either of them severa y,
when the plaintiff would be entitled to judgment against
such defendant or defendants, if the action had been
against them, oranyof, ,them,alone. ‘ . i , l .

SE _. ,4 , In the cases mentioned in section forty, the
service of, the summons shall he deemed complete, at the
ex,pi,1_'ation of the time prescribed by the order for publi‘cation.

‘Sun. 43. Proof of the service of the summons and of
the complaint, or notice, «if any, accompanying the same,
shallbeasfollows: _  ,  . I .. , 

1. If served by the sheriff, his certidcate thereof ;_ or,
2., Ifby anyhother person, his aflidavit ther,eof;,or,, .
.3. In case of pu_blicatio,n,,the aflidavit of,,the pqintereor

hg foreman or rincipal clerlgshowing tire. sa;ne,,.an_d an

a davit of a eposit of a copy of the summonsin the

post oiiice, as required by law,‘ if the same shall havelbeon

deposited,;or,_,    ,, . _ .  .; 

4;. The written admission of the defendant. . In, case of
tigntby pub _icat_ion,,the certificate or

e 1

seryice otherwise,

aiiidavit shall state _ me an ,manne,l.'..of, servipe. . 
Sm. 44. From the time of the service of the summons

in a civil action or the allowance of a provisional remedy

the court shall be deemed to have acquired jurisdiction,
and to have control of all the subsequent proceedings.
A voluntary appearace of a defendant is equivalent to a
personal service of the summons upon him.

TITLE 6.
Of the pleadings in Uivil Actions.

Grurrln 1. The complaint.
2. The demurrer.
3. The answer.
4. The reply.

5. General rules of pleading.
6. Mistakes in pleading and amendments.

OHAPTER I.
The C'omplarz'xnt.

Sxorrou 45. Forms of pleading heretofore existing, abolished.
46. First pleading to be complaint.
47. Complaint,’ what to contain.

SEO. 45. All the forms of pleading heretofore existing,
' are abolished, and hereafter the forms of pleading in civil
’_actions, in courts of record, and the rules by which the
suiliciency of the pleadings are determined are those prescribed by this act. _
r ‘Sec. 46. The first pleading on’ the part of the plaintiff
. is the complaint. . ' -‘W _

Site. 47. The complaint shall contain,

1. The title of the cause, specifying the name of the
court in which the action is brought, the name of the
county in which the plaintiff desires the trial to be had
and the names of the parties to the action, plaintiff an
defendant. " ' ‘ p “ '

9. A plain and concise statement of the facts constituting a cause of action without unnecessary repetition.

3. ‘A demand of the relief ‘to which the plaintiif supposes himself entitled ; if the recovery of money be
demanded the amount thereof shall be stated.

CHAPTER II.

T/2.? Demwrer.

Stones 48. Defendant to demur or answer. . _
49. When the defendent may demur and causes of de.»
l mur. l
50. Demurrer mustspecify grounds of objection to com-plaint. _
51. How to proceed if complaint be amended.
52. Objection not appearing on complaint may be taken
by answer.
53. Objection when deemed waived.

SEO. 48. The only pleading on the part of the defendant
is either a demurrer or an answer. It must be served
within twenty days after the service of the copy of the
complaint.

SEO. 49. The defendant may demur to the complaint,
whenit shall appear upon the face thereof; either,

1. That the court has no jurisdiction of the person, of.
the defendant or the subject of the action; or, ~ r
2. That the plaintiff has not legal capacity to sue ; or,

3. That there is another action pending between the
same parties for the same cause; or,

4:. That there is a defect of parties, plaintiff or defendant; or, ‘

5. That several causesof action have been improperly
united; or,

6. That the complaint does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action.

SEO. 50. The demurrer shall distinctly specify-the grounds
of objection to the complaint. Unless it do so, it-may be
disregarded. It may be taken to the whole complaint,
or to any of the alleged causes of action stated therein..

Sec. 51. If the complaint be amended, a. copy thereof
must be served on the defendant, who must answer it
within twenty days, or the plaintiff upon filing with the
clerk, due proof of the service, and of the defendant’s

' omission, may proceed to obtain judgment as providedby

section one hundred and fifty eight, but where an application to the court for judgment 18 necessary, eight days

notice thereof must be given to the defendant.

Sno. 52. When any of the matters enumerated in section
forty-nine do not appear upon the face of the complaint,
the objection may be taken by answer. 5

S30. 53. If no such objection be taken either by demurrer or answer, the defendant shall be deemed to have
waived the same, excepting only.the objection to.thejurisdiction of ‘the court, and the objection that {the complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action.

onurnn III.
The Answer.

SECTION 54. Answer, what to contain.

55. What constitutes a counter claim. . 56. May set forth as many_ grounds of defence asexists, but
must be separately stated. \

57. Demurrer as to some causes of action, and answiarz asto others.

I 58. Sham defences to be stricken out on motion. .
. 59, Reply, when necessary, and what to contain; Whey
‘ case plaintiff may demur to answer. 5
60.‘ When defendant may move for judgment upon an answer.

61. Demurrer to reply.

0

SE0. 54. The answer of the defendant must contain—— '

1. A‘ general or specific» denial of each material allege»
tion of the complaint, controverted by the defendant, or of
any linowldge or information thereof sutiicient to form’ a
be is .

p 2. A statement of any new matter constituting a des
fenc_e‘.or*cou~.nter-‘claim, in ordinary and concise language,
without ‘re ',tition-.

Sun. 553.‘ 6 counter claim mentioned in the last section,
must -‘be one existing in ~fa*‘vor of a defendant and a ainst
a plainti&',‘~ between whom a several judgment mi t be
had in the ‘action, and arisingout of one of the fol owing
causes ;of action: ’ '

1.‘ A-cause of action arising out of the contract or trans
saction set forth in the complaint, as the foundation of the
plaintiff's claim or connected with the subject of the ac~

tion. '

2. In an action arising on contract, any other cause of
action arising also on contract and existing at the commencement of the action. ‘

SE0. 56. The defendant may set forth ‘by answer as
many defences and counter claims asrheimay have, whether they be such as have been heretofore denominated
legal ‘or equitable, or both 3 they must each be separately
stated, and refer to the causes of action which they are
intended to answer in such manner th‘at'they‘may be in‘telligibly distinguished. _

SEO. 57. The defends-nt-may demur nto -enevor more of
several causes of action-: stated in the complaint and answer the residue. .

SE0. 58. Sham and irrelevant answers and defences
may be stricken out on motion, and upon; such terms as
the CO‘1l‘l3 may, in their discretion, impose.

SEC. 59., When the answer contains newmatter, conav

stituting a counter claim, the plaintiff may, within twenty;
days, reply to such new matter, denying, generally or‘

specially, each allegation controverted by him, or any
knowled e or information "thereof, snfhcient to form a belief, and may-allege, in ordinary and concise language,
anyoneawanatter not inconsistent with the eomplaint constituting a defence to such new matter in the answer,
and the laintiff may, in all cases, demur to theoanswer,
for insu ciency, statin , in his demurrer, ‘the grounds"

“thereof, and the plain if maydemur to one or more of

several defences or counter-claims, set up in the “answer,
and reply to the residue of the counterclaim.
SEO. 60. ‘If the answer contain a statement of new matter constituting a counter claim, and the pluintiif fail to»

-reply or dem ur thereto within the time prescribed by law,

the defendant may move, on a notice. of not less than -ten
days, for such judgment as,he is entitled to upon such
‘statement, and if the case require it, a writ of inquiry of
damages may be issued.

l ‘SE0. 61. It’ a reply of the plaintiff to any defence set
*up by the -answer of the ‘defendant be insufdcient, -the

defendant may demur thereto, and shall state the grounds
‘thereof.

A o ' CHAPTER v.

General Rules qf’ Pleading. \,

Sscrrort 62. Pleadings, how subscribed and when verilied.
63. Verification of pleadings. 6
64. How to state an account in pleading.
65. Pleadings to be liberally construed. .
66. Irrelevant and redundant matter to be stricken out.

67. Judgments, how to be pleaded.
68. Condition precedent, how to he pleaded.

69. Private statutes, how pleaded. _
70. Libel and slander, how stated in complaint. ,

71. Answer in such cases.

72. In actions to recover property distrained for damage,
answer need not set forth title.

73. What causes of action may be joined in same action.
74. To what such causes must belong.

75. Allegation not denied, when to be deemed true. '

76. What matters deemed controverted without reply.

SEO. 62. Every pleading in a C'lI1I‘l'. of record must’ be
subscribed by the party, or his attorney, and when any
pleading is verified, every subsequent pleading, except a
demurrer, must be verified also. A

SEO. 63. The veridcation must be to the effect, that the
same is true to the knowledge of the person making it,
except as to those matters stated on information and belief, and as to those matters he believes it to be true, and
must be by the atlidavit of the party, or if there be several parties united in interest and pleading together, by
one at least of such parties acquainted witn the facts, 
such party be within the county where the attorney resides, and capable of making the aflidavit. The affidavit
may ‘also be made by the agent or attorney, if the action
or defence be founded upon a Written instrument for the
payment of money only, and such instrument be in the
possession of the agent or attorney; or if all the material
allegations of the pleadings be within the personal knowledge of the agent or attorney. When the pleading is
verilied by anv other person than the party, he shall set
forth in the atiidavit his knowledge, or the grounds of his
belief on the subject, and the reasons why it is not made

by the party. When a corporation is a party, the verification may be made by any oiiicer thereof. And when
the state, or any ‘oliicer thereof in itsbehalf is a party,
the verification may be made by any person acquainted
with the facts. The verification may be omitted when an
admission of the truth of the allegations might subject
the party to prosecution for felony. And no pleading can
be used in a criminal prosecution against the party as

proof of a fact admitted or alleged in such pleading.

' SEC. 64. It shall not be necessary for a party to set forth I
in a pleading the items of an account therein alleged, but?
he shall deliver to the adverse party, within ten days‘

after .a demand thereof, in writing, a copy of the account,
which, if the pleading is verified, must be verified by his
own oath, or that of his agent or attorney, if within the

ersonal knowledge of such agent or attorney, to the ef, ect that he believes it to be true, or be precluded from

giving evidence thereof. The court, or a judge thereof,
or a county judge, may order a further account when the
one delivered is defective; and the court may in all cases
order a bill of particulars of the claim of either party to
be furnished. .

SEC. 65. In the construction of a pleading for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations shall be liberally construed with a view to substantial justice between
the parties. _

SEO. 66. If irrelevant and redundant matter be inserted ,
in a pleading, it may be stricken out on motion of any '
person aggrieved thereby; and when the allegations of an
pleading are so indefinite or uncertain, that the precise
nature of the charge or defence’ is not apparent, the court
may require the pleading to be made dehnite and certain
by amendment.

SEO. 67. In pleading a judgment or other determination 1
of a court or oiiicer of special jurisdiction, it shall not be,
necessar to state the facts conferring jurisdiction, but
such ju gment or determination may be stated to have
been duly given or made. If such allegation be controverted, the party pleading shall be bound to establish on
the trial the facts conferring jurisdiction.

See. .68.‘ In pleading the erformance of conditions precedent in a contract, it she. lnot be necessary to state the
facts showing such performance, but it may be: stated
generally that the party duly performed all the conditions
on his part, and if such allegation be controvegted, the

part pleading shall be bound to establish on the trial,
the acts showing‘ such performance." In an action ordefence founded u on an‘ instrument for the payment of
money only, it s all be sufiicient for the party to ive a
copy ‘of the instrument, and to state that there is ue to
him thereon from the adverse party a specified sum which
he claims. ‘ ' “ ‘ " ”‘
‘Site. 69. In pleading a rivate statute or a right derived
therefrom, it shall be su cient to refer to such statute

by its title, and the day of its passage, and the court shall ,

thereupon take judicial notice thereof.
SEO. 7 O. In an action for libel or slander, it shall not be

.necessary to state in the complaint any extrinsicfacts for

thepurpose of showing the a plication to the plaintiif of
the defamatory matters out 0 which the cause of action
arose; but it shall be sufficient to state generally, that the
same was published or spoken concerning the plaintif,
and if such allegation be controverted, the plaintiif shall
be lliound to establish, on trial, that it was so published or
s 0 en.

PSE0. 71. In the actions mentioned in the last section,
the defendant may, in his answer, allege both the truth
of the matter charged as defamatory, and any mitigatin
circumstances, to reduce the amount of damages; an
whether he prove the justification or not, he may give
in evidence the mitigating circumstances. ’

SEO. 72. In an action to recover the possession of property distrained, doing damage, ananswer that the de’fendant or person by whose command he acted was la'wfully possessed of the real property upon which the distress ‘was made, and that the property distrained was

at the time doing damage thereon, shall be good without

'setting‘forth the title to"such real property. "
SEO. 73. The plaintiif ma unite in the same complaint

‘several causes of action, w ether they be ‘such 'as have

been heretofore denominated legal or equitable or both,

‘where they arise out of'— "

1‘. The same transaction or transactions connected with
the same subject of action ;" ' ’ ' ' '

2. Contract, express or implied;

3. Injuries with or without force to person and property,
oreither;or, ‘ '  ' ‘

4. Injuries to character or,

5. Claims to recover real property with or without damages for the withholding thereof, and the rents and proiits
o the same’; or, ' ' ’ ' I

6. Claims to recover ersonal property with or ‘without
damages for the withho ding thereof; or,
7. Claims a ainst a trustee by virtue of a contract, or

by operation 0 law.

‘SE0.-74. But the causes of action so ‘united must all

belong to one of these classes, and must aifect all the pars.

ties to the action, and not require diiferentplaces of trial,
and must be stated respectively‘ [separately.]

‘Sine. 7 5. Every material allegation of the complaint not
controverted by the answer, as prescribed in section 54,
and every material allegation of new matter in the
answer constituting a counter claim, not controverted by
the reply, as prescribed in section 59, shall, for the purposes of the action, be taken as true. ' ' 1

SE0. 76. But the allegation of new matter in the answer,
not relatin to a counter claim, or of new matter in a

' reply, is to e deemed controverted by the adverse party

as upon a direct denial or avoidance, as the case may
require. S ' V

‘ CHAPTER VI.

Mistakes in Pleadings and Amendments. 3

SECTION 77. Material variances, how provided for.
‘ 78. Immaterial variances, how provided for.
' 79. What to be deemed a variance.

_80. Amendments of courseland after "demurrer.

81. Amendments by the court.

82. General control of court over proceedings.

83. Suing a party by fictitious name, when allowed.

84. N 0 error or defects to be regarded, unless it afects substantial rights.
85.‘ Supplementary complaints, answer and reply.

SEO. 77. No variance between the allegation in ap1eading and the proof shall be deemed material, unless it shall
actually _ mislead the adverse party to his prejudice in

‘maintaining his action or defence upon its merits. WhereI

ever it she. be alleged that a party has been so misled,
that fact shall’ be proved’ to the satisfaction of the court,
and in what respect he has been misled, and thereupon

the court may order the pleading to be amended upon
such terms as maybe just. ,

_ SE0. 78. Where the variance is not material as provided in the last~section, the court may direct the fact to be
found in accordance with the evidence, or may order an
immediate amendment without costs.

SEC. 79. When, however, the allegation of the cause of
action or defence to which the proof is directed, is unproved, not in some particular or particulars only, but in
its entire scope and meaning, it shall not be deemed a
case of variance within the last two sections, but a failure

A of proof.

SEO. 80. Any pleading may be once amended by the
party of course without costs, and without prejudice to
the proceeding already had, atjany time before the period
for answering it expires, or it can be so amended at any
time within twenty days after the service of the answer
or demurrer to such pleading, unless it be made to a pear
to the court that it was done for the purpose of elay,
and the plaintiff or defendant will thereby lose the benefit
of a term or circuit for which it is or may be noticed, and
if it appear to the court, that such amendment was made
for that purpose, the same may be stricken out and such
terms imposed as to the court may seem just. In such
case a copy of the amended leading must be served on
the adverse party. After t e decision of ‘a demurrer,
either at a generel or special term, the court may, in its
discretion, it it appear that the demurrer was interposed
in good faith, allow the party to plead on such terms as
may seem just. If the demurrer be allowed for the cause
mentioned in the 5th sub-division of section 49, the
court may, in its discretion, and upon such terms as
may be just, order the action to be divided into as many
actions as may be necessary to the proper determination
of the cause of action therein mentioned.

SEO. 81. The court may, before or after judgment, in
furtherance of justice, and upon such terms as may be
proper, amend any pleading or proceedings, by adding or
striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a
mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other
respect, or by inserting other allegations material to the
case; or when the amendment does not change substantially the claim or defence, by conforming the pleading
or proceeding to the facts proved.

SE0. 82. The court may likewise in its discretion, and
upon such terms as may be just, allow an answer or re.ply to be made, or other act to be done, after the time
imited by this act, or by an order enlarge such time; and
may also in its discretion and upon such terms as may be
jlnst, at any time within one year after notice thereof, re'eve a party from a judgment, order or other proceeding
taken against him through his mistake, inadvertance or
surprise, or excusable neglect, and may supply an omission in any proceeding; and whenever any proceeding
taken by a party. fails to conform in any respect to the
provisions of this code, the court may in like manner and
upon like terms, permit an amendment of such proceeding
--so as to make it conformable thereto.

SE0. 83.‘ When the plainliif shall be ignorant of the
name of a defendant, such defendant may be designated
in any pleading or proceeding by any name ; and when
his true name shall be discovered, the pleading or proceeding may be amended accordingly. '

Site. 81:. The court shall, in every stage of an action,
disregard any error or defect in the pleadings or proceed
ings, which shall not affect the substantial rights of the
adverse party; and no judgment shall be reversed or
affected by reason of such error or defect.

SEO. 85. The plaintiff and defendant respectively may
beallowed, on motion, to make a supplemental complaint,
answer or reply, alleging facts material to the case, occurring after the former complaint, demur or reply, or of
which the party was ignorant when his former pleading
was made. '

TITLE 7.

Q’ Ma Provisional Remedy in Civil Action.

Oinrna 1. Arrest and hail.
2. Claim and delivery of personal property.
3. Injunction.
4. Attachment.
5. Provisional remedies.

CHAPTER I.

Arrest and Bail.

- - Stories 86. Nocperson to be arrested except as prescribed by this
act. .

87. Cases in which defendant may be arrested.
.88. Order for arrest, by whom made.

89. Affidavit to obtain order. p

90. Security by plaintiff before order for arrest.
91. Order, when made, and its form. I

92. Aflidavit and order to .be delivered to sheriff, andcqpy
served on defendant. »

93. Arrest, how made.
94. Defendant to be discharged on bail or deposit. 1
95. Bail, how given.
96. Surrender of defendant.
97. Bail may arrest and surrender.
98. Bail, how proceeded against.
99 Bail, how exonerated.
100. Delivery of undertaking to plaintiff and its acceptance
or rejection by him.
101. Notice of j.ustif‘1cq.tion and new undertaking. of other
bail.
102. Qualiioation of bail.
103. How to jutify. '
104. Allowance of undertaking.
105. Deposit of money with sheriff.
106, Payment of money by sheriff.
107. Substitution of bail for deposit.
108. Money. deposited, how applied or disposed of.’
109. Sheriff when liable as bail and his discharge from liability.
110. Proceeding against sherif.
111. Bail liable toisherili‘.
112. Motion to vacate, arrest or reduce bail.

113. Afhdavits on motion.

SEO. 86. No person shall be arrested in a civil action
except as prescribed by this act; but this provision shall
not apply to proceedings for contamptlm ‘

Sun. 87. The defendant may be arrested, as hereinafter
prescribed, in the following cases: i

'1. In an action for the recovery of damages, on a cause"
of -action not arising out of contract where the defendant
is not a resident of the state or isabout to remove therefrom-, or where the action‘ is for an injury to person or
character, or for injuring, or for wrongfully taking,’ detaining, or converting property. _

2. In an action for a fine or penalty, or for ‘money
received, or for property embezzled, or fraudulently mis‘- i
applied by ‘a public oflicer, or by an attorney, solicitor, or’
counselor,’ or by an omcer or agent of a corporation or
banking association,-‘ in the course of his employment as
such, or by any factor, agent,‘broker, or any person in a
fiduciary capacity, or for any ‘misconduct or neglcct‘in-i
omce, or in a professional employment.

3. In an action to recover possession of personal propertyunjnstly detained, where the property, or any part
thereof, has been concealed,-removed or disposed of, so
that it cannot be found or tak‘en=by the sheriff;

But no femaleshall be arrested in any action‘ except for
a wilful injury to person, character or property. SE0;-88. An order for-the arrest of the defendant must
be obtained from a judge of l the court in which the action A
is brought, or from a county judge, or court commisséicner.

_SEo. 89. The order may be nmde where it shall appear
to* the judge or commissioner, by the aiiidaviti of the
plaintiff, or of any other person, that "at suflicient cause of
action exists; and that the case is one -of’ those mentioned‘
in section 87. A

Size. 90. Before making the order, the judge or c0m=
niissionershall require" ‘a written undertakiuglon the art
of i the *plainti&', -with orwithout sureties, to the -effect t ‘at,
iihtly defendant recover judgment, the plainti&' will pay
all costsvthat may be awarded to the defendant, and‘ alt
damages which he may sustain by reason of the arrest,’
not exceeding the sumispeciiied in+the'nndertaking, which
slrallbe atleast ione=hundredd‘o11‘fars;~ If the’ undertaking
be executed‘ by the- plaintiff without»-suretiesf, he shalt
annexithereto an affidavit that he is a resident and house‘holder for freeholder within the state, ahd ‘worth’ double‘
the sum speci—f1edsin= -the‘ =nndert‘aking, above” all his debts‘
and liabilities. _ ' l

Site. 91.-The order marbemade to aceompanythe 
mono, or at-any -time-’a&erwai'ds before ‘j ndgmlsnt. ~ Itslrdll‘

require the sheriff of the county, where the defendant may
be found, forthwith to arrest him, and hold him to bail in
a speciiiedsum, and to return the order at a time and

place therein mentioned, to the plaintiif or attorney by .

whom it shall be subscribed or endorsed.
SEO. 92. The aihdavit and order of arrest shall be deli»

'vered to /T the sheriff, who, upon arresting the defendant,

shall deliver to him a copy thereof.

SEO. 93. Theesheriff shall execute the order, by arresting the defendant, and keeping him in custody until discharged by law ; and may call the power of the county to his aid in the execution of the arrest as in case of process.
SEO. 94. The defendant, at any time before execution,

shall be discharged from the arrest, either upon giving .

bail,'or upon depositing the amount mentioned in the order
of arrest, as provided in this chapter.

SEO. 95. The defendant may give bail, by causing. a
written undertaking to be executed by two or more sud}-.
cient bail, stating the places of residence and occupations,
to the effect that -the defendant shall, at all times, render
himself amenable to the process of the court during the
pemdency of the action, and to such as may be issued to
enforce the judgment therein; or if he be arrested for the
cause mentioned in the third sub-division of section 57,
an undertaking to the same eifect as that provided. by
section 119. 1 SEO. 96. At any time before a failure to comply with

their undertaking, the bail may surrender the defendant
in their exoneration, or he may surrender himself to the .

sheriif of the county Where he was arrested, in the following manner :

1. A certiiied copy of the undertaking of the bail shall
be delivered to the sheriff, who shall detain the defendant
in his custody thereon, as upon an order of arrest, grid
ghall by a certificate in writing acknowledge the surren-—

er. ' r

2. Upon the production of a copy of the undertaking
and sheriif’s certificate, a judge of the court or county
judge, or court commissioner, may, upon a notice to the

‘plaintiff, of eight days, with a copy of the certiticate,.
order that the bail be exonerated; and on filing the order .

and the papers used on such application, they shall be
exonerated acordingly.

But this section shall not apply to the arrest for the I

causes mentioned in the third subdivision of section 87,

so as to discharge the hail from an undertaking given to
the effect provided by section 119.

81:0. 97. For the purpose of surrendering the defendant, J
the bail, at any time or place, before they are finally1
charged, may themselves arrest him, or by a written au—'
thority, endorsed/on a certified copy of the undertaking,
ma empower any person of suitable age and discretion
to 0 so.

Site. 98. In case of failure to comply with the under-;

. taking, th bail may he proceeded against by action only. <

SEO. 99. e bail may be exonerated,‘ either by the.
death of the defendant, or his imprisonment in a state;
rison. or by his discharge from the obligation to render
imself amenable to the porcess, or by his surrender to
the sheriff of the county where he -was arrested, in execution thereof, within twenty days after the commencement
of the action against the bail, or within such further time
as may be granted by the court. . ,;

SEC. 100. Within the time limited for that purpose, the
sheriff shall deliver the order of arrest to the plaintiff or
attorney, by whom it is subscribed, with his return endorsed, and a certified copy of the undertaking of the bail.
The plaintiff within ten days thereafter, may serve upon
the sheriif, a notice that he does not accept the bail, or
he shall be deemed to have accepted it, and the sheriff
shall be exonerated from liability.

Size. 101. On the receipt of such notice, the sherilf or
defendant may, within ten days thereafter, give to the
plaintiff or attorney by whom the order of arrest is sub
scribed, notice of justification of the same, or other bail,

‘(specifying the places of residence and occupations of the

latter) before a judge of the court or county judge, or
justice of the peace, at a specilied time and place, the
time to be not less than live nor more than ten days thereafter.» In case other baillbe given, there shall be a new
undertaking, in the form prescribed in section 95.

Site. 102. The qualifications of bail must be as follows:

1. Each of them must be a resident, and householder
or freeholder, within the state.

2. They must each be worth the amount specified in the
order of arrest, exclusive of property exempt from execution, but a judge, or a justice of the peace, on justi§cation, may allow more than two bail to justify severally
in amounts less than that expressed in the order, if the

ghilale justification be equivalent to that of two sufficient
ai . ' , .
SEC. 103. For the purpose of justification,« each of the
bail shall attend before the judge, or a ‘ustice of the
peace, at the time and place mentioned in t e notice, and
may be examined on oath, on the part of the plaintiff,
touching his sufficiency, in such manner as the judge or
'ustice of the peace, in his discretion, may think prop ’ ‘.
he examination shall be reduced to writin ,.and su -i
scribed by the bail, if required by the plainti . .
SE0. 104. If the judge or justice of the peace find the
bail sufficient, he shall annex the examination to the un-‘_
dertaking, endorse his allowance thereon, and caus_e_them
to be filed with the court; and the sheriff shall thereupon
be exonerated from liability. .
SEC. 105. The defendant may, at thejtimeof his arrest,
instead of giving bail, ‘deposit with the sheriff the amount
mentioned in the order. The sheriff shall thereupon give
the defendant a certificate of the deposit, and the defendant shall be discharged out of custody.
SEO. 106. The sheriff.sha_ll, within _four days. after the

den osit, pay _the same into court, and shall take from the

o cer receivin the same two certificates of payment the
one of which lie ‘shall deliver to the 1 plaintiff, an the
other to the defendant. For any default in making such.
payment, the same proceedings may be hadon. the oiiicial
bond of the sheriff, to collect the sum deposited, as in

other cases of delinquency. A
T SE0. 107. If money be deposited, as provided in,thela,st_

two sections, bail may be given and justified upon notice,
as rescribed in section 101, any time beforejudgment;
an thereii on the judge before whom the justification is
bad, shall irect, in tlie order of allowance,’ that the ,mo_ney de osited be refunded by the sheri&' to the defendant, an it shall be refunded accordingly. ,  .- .

SEO. IQS. Where money shall have been so deposited,

T. if it remain on deposit at the time of an order or jgud ment for the aymentof money to the plaintiff, the cler ,
shall, under t e direction of the cou.rt,..apply the same in
satisfaction thereof, and . after satisfying‘ tlie judgment,
shall refund the surplus, it any, tgathe defendant. If the.
judgment. be in favor of the defen. ,_ , _
tun to him the whole sum deposited, and remaining unapplied.

nt, the'_.cl,erk' shall_ra- «

,8no. 118, The defendant _may, within three days after
the service of a copy of the atfidavit and undertalnng,
give notice to the sheriff that he exceptsto the,su_flic1ency
of the sureties. If he fails to do so, he shall be deemed
to have waived all objection to them. When the defendant excepts, -the sureties shall justify, on notice, in like
manner as upon bail on arrest- And the sheriff shall be
responsible for the sufficiency of the sureties until the
objection to them is either waived as above provided, or
until they justify, or new sureties shall be substituted
and justify. If the defendant except to the sureties, he cannot reclaim. the property as_-provided in the next section.
See. 119. At any time before the delivery of the prot
party to the plaintiff, the defendant may, if he do noexcept to thesureties of the plaintiff, require. the return
thereof, upon giving to the sheriff a written undertaking,
executed by two or more suflicient sureties, to the effect
that they are bound, in double the value of the pro erty,
as stated in the aflidavit of the laintiii‘, for the delivery
thereof to the sheriii‘, if such elivery be adjudged,,and
for the payment to him of such sum as may for any cause
be recovered against the defendant. If a return of the
property be not so required within three days after the

taking and service of notice to the defendant,‘ it shall be

delivered to the plaintiff, except as provided in section 124.

SEC. 120.‘ The defendant’s sureties,.upon a notice to the
plaintiff, of not less than two nor morethan six days, shall
justify before a judge or justice of the peace, in the same
manner as upon bail on arrest; upon such justilication
the sheriff shall deliver the property to the defendant.
The sheriff shall be responsible for the defendant’s sureties,
until they justify, or until, justification is completed, or
expressly waived, and may retain the property ;u‘ntil“that
time, but it‘ they, or others in their “place, fail to justify
at the time and place appointed’, ‘he ‘shall ‘deliver the property tothe plaintiff. T -” ‘ ‘_

81:0. 121. —‘The' quallihcation of sureties and -their ustiiication rshlallghe as-‘prescribed: by-tsections»102‘and 103, in

.respect to bail upon an order of - 81:0; 122. Ifithe property on any-part‘ thereof be concealed in a building or enclosure, /the sheriff shall pub-licly demand itsdelivery ; if it be not delivered, he shall
cause the building or enclosure to be broken open and
take the property into his possession ;, and if necessary
he may call to his aid the power of hisjcounty.

Sec. 123. When the sheriff shall have taken property,
as in this chapter ‘provided, he shall keep it in a secure
place, and deliver it to the party entitled thereto, upon
receiving his lawful fees for taking, and his‘ necessary or
penses for keeping the same.

Sec. 124. If the property taken be claimed by any other
person than the defendant or his agent, and such person
shall make aflidavit of his title thereto, and right to-the
possession thereof, stating the grounds of such right and
title, and serve the same upon the sheriff, the sheriff shall
not be bound to keep the property, or deliver it to the
plaintiff, unless the plaintiff, on demand of him or his
agent, ~ shall indemnify the sheriff against such claim by
an undertaking, executed by two sufficient snreties, accompanied by their aflidavits, that they are each worth
double the value of the property, as specified in the ailidavit of the plaintiff, and freeholders and householders of
the county. And no claim to such property by any other
person than the defendant or his agent, shall be valid
against the sheriff unless made as aforesaid, and notwithstanding such claim, when so made, he may retain the
property a reasonable time to demand such indemnity.

SEC. 125. The sheriff shall file the notice andaflidavit
with the proceedings thereon, with the clerk of the court
in which the action is pending, within, twenty days after
taking the property mentioned therein.

onumn rm
Injunction.

8:01:03! 126. Injunction may be in form of an order.
121 . Injunction, in what cases granted.
128.. At -what time. it may be granted. and 0901! What
granted.
12.9. -Notice, when required.  injmlion-.
180; Security upon injunction. and dams?! thereon. how
ascertained.
-19!. Order to ‘show cause why injintion Ihluld: not be
granted.
132. Security upon injunction to suspend bailout of cor»
poration. ‘
133. Motion to vacate or modify injunction.
134. Amdavita _on motion.

I

8no..109.=‘If~after being arrested, thesdefendent ese®e
orebezreseued, or bail be not given: or justihsd-, or a deposit
be not made ineteadthereof, the sheriff shall himself he
Hable as bail. But he may discharge himself from such:
liability by the giving and justification of bail as provided;
in~secti‘ons 101, 102, 103 and 10.4-, at ‘any time before processvagainst the person of the defendant to enforce an:
order or judgment in the action. ‘

8:0. 110. It a judgment be recovered against a~bhe:ifl',
upon his liability. as bail, and an execution thereon be»
returned unsatisfied, in whole or in part, the same. pro-‘
ceedingslapay be had on the oflicial bond of the-sheriff to
collect thedelinquency, as in other cases of» delinquency.

SEO. 111. The bail taken upon the arrest, shall, unless
they justify, or other bail be given or justified, be liable
to t e sheriff by action for damages which he may sns~
tain by reason, of such omission. *

Sno; 112. A defendant arrested may, at-any timebetcre
the justification of bail, apply, on memon, to vacate the
ordevof arrest, or to reduce the amount on bail.

SEC. 113. If the motion be made upon affidavit on-the
part of the defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintiif may
opposethe same by amdavit or other proof, in addition
to= those: on which the order or arrest was made.

4

CHAPTER II.

C’lcn°ms cmd. delivery of personal 

Sncrron 114. Delivery of personal property, when it may be olaimedi
115. Ailidavit and its requisites. 1 .
116. Requisition to sherilf to take and deliver the property,
117. Security on part of the plaintif and justihcation.
118,. Exception to, snretiee and proceedings thereon or on

failure. to agoept,

119. Defendant when entitled to reedeliveny.

1%} J ustihcetion of. defendant's aunties.‘ ‘
121:’. Qualiiieetiomand justification of euretfns.

1&2. Property, how taken when oenoealedln building or

‘ enclosure. 1 '1
123. Property, how kept.
124.‘ "Claim of ‘property by third person 5 and proceeding
thereon. * ‘ * ‘ ‘

125._Notice end amlevit, when and where to be hled.

Bro. 114. The plaintilf, in an aetionto. recover the possession of personal property, may, at the; time of issuing
the summons, or at any time before answer, claim the
immediate delivery ~of such property, as provided-in this
chapter. a '

See. 115. Where a delivery is. claimed, an afhdavit
nltlust bemade by the plaintiff, or by some one on his behalf,
s owm : = L , - 1. T at the plaintiff is the owner of the property claim«
ed, (particularly describing it,) or is lawfully entitled to
the possession thereof, byvirtue -of -a special property
therein, the facts in respect to which -shall be set forth.

2. That the« property is wrongfully detained‘ by the
defendant. .

3. The alleged cause-of the detention thereof, according
to his best knowledge, informatiomand belief. . '

4. That the same has not been taken for a tax, assessment or fine. pursuant to a statute, or siezed under an execution or attachment against the property of the plaintiff, or if so seized, that itis by statute exempt fromsuch
seizure; and -  . 7 5. The actual value of the property. ’ .

» Site. 116. The plaintiff -may thereupon, by an endorsement in writing upon: the-amdavi-t, require the sheriff of
the county where the property claimed may be, to take
thg same from the defendant, and deliver it to the plainti . ‘

Sec. 117. Upon the receipt of the aiiidavit and notice,
with a written undertaking, executed by one or more
suiiicient auretiea, approved by the sheriff, to the effect
that they are bound in double the value of the property
Pa stated in the affidavit, for the prosecution of the action,

or the return of the property to the defendant, if return
thereof be adjudged, and for the payment to him of such
sum as may for any cause he recovered against the plaintill‘, the sheriff shall forthwithtake the property described
in the atlidavit,-if it be in the possession of the defendant
or his agent, and retain it inhisvcustody. He shall also,
without delay,-serve on the -defendant a_ copy of the silldavit, notice and undertaking, by deliveringthe same to
him personally, if he can be found, Lorbis agent, from
whose possession the property is,taken.; or, if neither can
be found, y_ leavingtliem at, the usualiplacepf abode of
either, wi some person of suitable age and discretion.

‘ .IVa ', ' ‘ ~ I
i .- ' r ', a ‘ - i
I Attachments. '4
Samoa 135. Attachments, when maj ieene and in whateaees.
' 136. Warrant of attachmenttand by. whom granted.
, 137. In what cases warrant maybe ilnnod. *
138. Security on ~attaehment.1: W A a ‘
139. Warrant, to whom directed and what to reqnire. ~ ?
140.’ Mode wproceedlngiiniexecdting warrant. "
141. Proceeding in case of perishable property or vessels.
142. Interest in corporation or association liable to attach_ ment. _
143. Attachment, how executed on property incapable of
, manual delivery. . , ..
144. Oertilicate of defendant's interest to be furnished by
corporation. - ' L - i 145. Judgment, how-eatibfied. - ' I 'l46. When action to recover note"&c-, attached, may be
prosecuted by the pl'aintiR' in the action in which
‘ H the attachment issued. . I
147. Bond to sherihi on attachment, how di8poeed;of on
‘. judgment for defendant.‘ 1 . ‘
 148.. Discharge of-attachment andgretnm of property or in
, - proceeds tedefendanh. - - .
149. Undertaking on the part of the defendant inrauch cant.
150. When and how ehetii to‘:-etnrn warrant. ' ‘
151. 8heriE'eieea. ' i ' ’ _
L52. Motion to set aside attachment for inenmciencj, and
- aiiidavita, and proceedings for thatpurpoae.

4 l

=* Bed. 135. In an action for the recovery of money;

against a corporation created bytor under the laws ofauy l

other state,» govern ment, or country,.o1-against a defendant «
whoie not a resident of this etate, or ‘against a defendant
who has abecnnded or concealed himaelt‘; «or! ' - - I
‘When the defendantrhas been guilty of a fraud-*in:eon.«
tracting the debt, or-"incurring the obligation for which
theaction is bronght,.or in concealing orrdiepodiog ot” the
property, for tbezmhing. detention orconveuion of which
thexactionie-‘brought;.or~ . «.4 at - ‘H -: - ~»- :1

When the defendant has removed or disposed of his
pro erty, or is about to do so, with intent to defraud his
cre itors. The plaintiff; yit the-‘time of issuing the summons, or at any time afterwards, may have the property
of such defendant attached in the manner hereinafter
prescribed, as a security for the satisfaction of such judgment as the ‘plaintif may recover. . ,

SEO. 188. Alwarrant of attachment must beobtained
from a judge omhe comm in-which the =action=is brought
or from a county judge or. court commissioner.

SEO.«1r37..;-The warrant may be -issued whenever it shall

_appear, byzatlidavit, that aeause of «a:etion.-exlists against

such defendant, specifying «the amount of the claim, and
the.grounds.thereof, and that the case is one of those mentioned in section 135.

Sno.l138. Before issuing the warrant, the judge or commissioner shall requirea written undertaking on the part
of the plaintiff, -with sufficient surety, to the effect that if
the--defendant recover’ judgment the plaintiff will pay all
costs that may be awarded to the ‘defendant, and all a ages which he may sustain‘:-by reason of the attachment,
_not._exceeding thesum specihed in the undertaking, which
shall be at least-twohundred and fifty dollars.

SEC. 139. The warrant shall be, directed to the sheriff
of any county in which property of such defendant ma
be, and shall require him to attach and safely ‘keep agl
the property of such defendant within his county, or so
much. thereof as may be suficient to ‘satisfy the plaintiffs
demand, together with costs-and expenses; the amount of
.wisich.~mus’t‘be-=stated in conformity with the ‘complaint,
together with eoetssuldexpenses. Severalrwarrants may
be issued at the same time to the sher.-i£_'n. of different countles.

SEO. 140. The sheriff to whom such warrant of attachment is directed and delivered, shall roceed thereon in
allrespects in. the manner required of ~ im by law, in dtse
of attachments-; shall make and return an inventory, and
shall died the property seized by him, or the.-proceedslof
snchas s all have been sold, to answer any judgment
which may be obtained in such action ; and shall, mbjb
to;the direction of the court or judge,-co1lect~and:rec*Uive
into his possessi -all debts, creditsand efects of -the.defondant. The e ' may also take ssnch legal«prcceodings, eitherien his own name, on in the names-of sueh=dufendant, as may be necessary for that «purpose, and

81:0. 126. The writ of injlunction may be in the form of 1
an order as prescribed in’-‘t is act. The order may bemadef
by the court in which the action is brought, or by a judge
thereof, or by a county judge or court commissioner," n
the casesprovided in the next section ; and, ‘when made,
ma be enforced as the order of the court. \

Sync. 127. Where it shall appear by the complaint that
the plaintiff is entitled to the relief emanded, and such
relief‘, or any part thereof, consists in restraining the commission or continuance of some act, the commission or
continuance of wliieh, durin the litigation would rdduce
injury to the plaintif, or w en, during the_litigation,’;it
shall appear that the defendant is doing, or ‘threatens, ‘or
is about to"do, or procurin or sufering some act to be
done in violation of the p aintiif’s rights, respecting the
subset of the action, and tending to render the judgment
ine ectual, a temporary injunction maybe granted to restrain such act. And when, during the pendenc of an
action, it shall appear by amdavit, that the d endant
threatens, or is about to remove or dispose of his property
with intent to defraud ‘his creditors, a tem orary in'unction may be ranted to restrain such remova or dispos tion.

81:0. 128. he injunction may be granted at the time of
commencing the action, or at any time afterwards ‘before
judgment, upon its appearing satisfactorily to the court or

judge, or court commissioner, by the atlidavit ‘of the plainti'E, or of any other person, that suiiicient grounds exist
therefor. A copy of the afiidavit must be served with the
injunction. _

381:0. 129. An injunction shall not be allowed after the
defendant shall have answered, unless upon ‘notice, or
upon an order to show cause; but in such case the defendant maybe restrained, until the decision of the court or‘
judge, j ranting or refusing the injuction.

SEO. ‘€30. Where no provision is made ‘by statute, asto
security upon an injunction, the court or judge or commissioner shall require a written undertaking, on the part of
the plaintiff, with or without securities, to the effect that
the plaintiff will pay to the party enjoined, such damages,
not exceeding an amount to be specified, as he ma sustain by reason of the in‘unction, 'f the court shall nally

decide that the plainti was no entitled thereto. The

damages may be ascertained by a reference or otherwise,

_ as the court shall direct.

"S120. 131. If th‘e court or judge or commissioner deem
‘——it proper that the defendant, or any of several defendants,
should be heard ,bet'o:e grantingythe injunction, an order‘
lmay be made, requiring cause to be shown, at a specified,
time and place, why the injunction should not be grant-j
ed; and the defendant may, in themeantime, be restrained. . ‘
. SEO. 132.‘ An injunction to suspend the gereral and
ordinary business of a corporation, shall. not be granted,
except by the court or judge thereof; nor shall it be
granted without due notice of the application therefor, to
the proper ofiicers of the corporation, except where the
people of this state are a‘ party to the proceeding, unless the
plaintiff shall give a written undertaking, executed by:
two sufficient sureties, to be approved by the court or’
ju"‘ge, to the effect, that the plaintiff will pay all damages,
n..t exceeding the sum to be mentioned in the undertaking, which such corporation may sustain, by reason of the
injunction, if the court shall finally decide that the plaintiif was not entitled thereto. The damages may be asEertained by a reference, or otherwise, as the court shall
irect. '
SEO. 133. If the injunction be granted by a judge of the
court, or by a county judge, or court commissioner, without notice, the defendant, at any time before theptrial, may
apply, upon notice, to the judge of the court in which theaction is brought, to vacate or modify the same. The
application may be made upon the complaint and the adidavit on which the injunction was granted or upon adida-'
vits on the part of the defendant, with or without 
answer. ‘_
SEC. 134. If the application, be made upon affidavits on .
the part of the defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintiff
may oppose the same by afiidavits or other proofs,__in
addition to those on whichthe injunction was granted.‘

, I

"Sm. 147. If-the foreign corporatiomper abse:_a_t,= or.ab-I
dconding, or ‘concealed defendant, recover‘ Judgment:
against the plaintiff in such- action, any heed taken 'by.
the sheriff, except such as are mentioned in ‘the last secs‘
tion,’ all the proeeeds of sales, and moneys collected‘
by him, and all the property attached remainisngin his‘
hands, shall be delivered by him to the defendant, or his
agent, on request, and the warrant shall be discharged,
and the property released therefrom.

Sec. 148. Whenever the defendant shall have appeared
in such action, he may apply to the otlicer who issued the
attachment, or to the court, for an order to discharge the
same; and if the same be granted,’ all the proceeds of
sales, and moneys collected by ‘him, and all the property
attached remaining in" his hands; shall be delivered or
paid by him to 'the defendant or his agent, and released
trom the attachment. V - , . - ~

149. Upon such application, the defendant shall
deliver,-to the court, or ofiicer, an undertaking. executed
by at least two sureties, resident, and freeholders in this
state, approved by such court or oliicer, to the eifect that
the sureties will, on demand, pay to the plaintiff the
amount of the judgment that may be recovered against
the defendant in the action, not exceedingathesum specie
fled in the undertaking, which shall he at least-double
the amountclaimed by the ‘plaintiff in his complaint. 

Sun. 150. When thewarrant shall be fully executed or
discharged, the sheriff shall return the same with his‘ prooeedings thereon, to the court in which. the action was
brnughf. ., _ Sec. 151. The sheriff shall be 'ent1tled‘to the-samerfees
and compensation for services, and the same disburse’ments under this title as are allowed by law tor like ser«
vices in other cases. -~

‘ Sec. 152. The defendant may, at any time before the
time to answer expires, make a motion before the circuis=
judge of the proper circuit, to set aside or discharge the I
attachment, on the ground that suilicient cause for the,
granting of thesame did not exist. Such motion may be j
made upon the athdavit for the attachment or additional,‘
aliedavits, on the part of the defendant, controverting the ’
‘grounds upon which the attachment was issued, and in
case the defendant uses additional affidavits, the plaintiif
may use additional atlidavits, on his part, to sustain the

same, and the plaintiff may, on reasonable notice forthat

fperpose rgiven require the defendant» or otiIer.persom.to
ieppenraon the‘ eating of motion,-and be examined
orally, touching the ;grounds upon which-said attachment
swasiseued; and if the defendant neglect or rehae «to at‘tend-ae=reqnired,a thiesmotion to discharge the attachment

shallbedenied.

GESAFDIB V.

 Provisional Remedies.

llsloflbll I53. Powers of court as to receivers.
154. Deposit of money or otherrproperty in court.
I55. Court-may order property or money deposited tote
delivered «or conveyed, or may pass title toitieel
estate by judgment.
1556. When answer shits pert of~p1einti§7s jciairnwetiirt,
on motion, my-order defendant to setisfy*thet‘pUt.

$50. 1153. A receiver may be appointed ;

1. {Before judgment, on the ep_p.ication?of either party,
rrhenhcaestablishes . an-apparent right to property which
isitho-subject of the action, and which is in the possession
of an ~ adverse party, and the property, or its rents and
proiite,'are in danger of -beinglost or materially injured
or: impaired.

-23. After judgment to carry the jmdgment into effect.

:3. After judgment to dispose of the property 36G0l'dr
ing to the judgment or to preserve__ it during the pen»
dnncysof an-appeal; or -when an ‘execution has been fretu-rtied ‘nneatéeiied * and th? judgmergedfilbhmr refuseswto

his pr in min action of ‘  i gment. e
apzyln the my provided in this code, and by speeid
statutes, when a corporation has been :dissolved, or dainIolvem-or in-imminent danger of insolvency, orlhas forefeited -itsleorpowate rights.

%5. In such owe: cases as are «now provided by -law, or
maybe in accordance with the existing-practice, except
an otherwise provided in this act.

‘Sec. 154. When it is admitted by the pleading -or at»
aminaticm of a party, that hehas in -his possession or under
his control‘: any money or other thing capable of delivery,
which being the subjectof the litigation, ~k4held by 
m irnetee for-another ‘party, or which belongs, or is due

continnenthe same at 8ll.IIh?tiI1‘.B6B,‘a11d‘0!l=l8l10hllJ0i'IllBiB‘&e
court or 'ud e may direct. .

‘ "Saw. 1 1. f anytproperty so seizedshallhe perishable,
or if any part of -it: be claimed by any other person than
stash defendant, or if any part of it consist of a vessel, -or
of =ra , islrare-or interest therein, the same proceedings
ahiall shade inall respectsras we providecrhy law upon
attachmenm.

-830. 14-2. The right-or shares which such defendant may
hhveiin the stock of any =aesociation or corporation,‘-to-,
gether" vwim the interest-and prelitsithereon, andsall other 3
property in ‘thiswstate ofsueh -defendant,'shal1 bellable‘
to%be attached and levied upon and -sold to satisfy the
judgment and execution.

.?Sno. 14:3. 'll‘he executionof the attachment lsupon any;
snehrights, shares, or any “debts or -other property inca-‘;
m1lesof<manual delivery to the sheriff, shall be made b ;

ving a ‘certified copy ‘of the warrant of attachment wi l t
the president or other head. of the -association or corporation, or the: secretary, teashier, or managingagent thereof,
or with the A debrtor or individual’ holding such property,
with a notice showing the property levied on.

SEO. 144. Whenever the sheriff shall withsa ‘w1ar;rant*of
attaohment or execution against the-«defendant, apply to
such ohicezydebtor or individualfor thepurpose or attach» ;
'. or  upon such property, such oiiicer, debtor erin ividua shall furnish ‘him with a oertidieate under
huud«,designatin«g:the‘nu¢znber~of righteor shares ofrthe defmdanténthe stool: of suclraeaociatzlon orseoapomtionywiih
any dividend or any incumbranee ‘thereon, or rthenamount
and description of the property held by such. assooiavion,
eogoratien -oriindividual, lfor the benefit of. orrdebtiowing
to eidefendant. If such orlieer, debtor orindividual=re£ase
to do so, he maybe required by. the court or judge, ‘to
‘attend before lrimand be examined on oath eolncernin
the sam"e,‘and obedience-I7oIaoh.orde'r may=‘be enfor
hywteaehment.

’’ Sale. 145. ‘Incase judgmentdreentered for‘ the plaintiif ini
buehuaction, the shares shall ~ tsulisfy the e same out or and
property attached by him, -if it shall be-sufficient‘ for that
P‘“'P°°°S ' .

1.  'paying'ever'to'tsu’eh=plainti&' the proceeds of - alli

‘ales tot iperishable property,  of any vessel or share or:

name -‘in’ any vessel sold by him, or Jefraany ='dehts=or.

credimcollected by :him,- or so much as shsl1:beTneoessai-y
to satisfy such judgment. i. r . k : . 
«B. It'- any balance ‘remain due, anduan execut-ionshall
have been issued on such‘ judgment,—he shall proceed to
sell under such execution,- so «much of the attached 
petty, real or personal, except as provided in sub division
fourrof this section,--as may be necessary to satisfy the
balance, if enough for that purpose shall remain in his
hands; and‘rin case-of the sale of any rights ortshares
in the stock of a-corporationor association, the sheri 1
shall execute to the purchaser a certiticare of sale-tthereoti
and thetpurchaser shall-thereupon‘ haveall the rights and
prirvileses in ~l'68p6Ct‘tl16t6tQ,:Which were;had by such defendant. , . . » L
r 3:. If any of the attached--property belonging to the
defendant shall have passed out vat’ the hands of the sher withouthavingibeen sold or converted into ‘money;
such sheriff -shall repossess himself of the same; and for
that purpose haveall the authority which he had to seize
the same under the attachment, and any person who shall
wilfullyrconceal or withhold such property from the shore
iff shall be liable to double damages at the suit of the
party injured. = . i '
-4. Until the judgment against the defendant shall be
paid, the sheriff may proceed to collect the notes and
other evidence bf debt, and the debts thatmayr have been
seized or attached’ under the warrant of? attachment, and
totproseeute any bond he may have taken in the course
of such proceedings, and apply the proceeds thereof -to
the payment of the judgment . - .- .
JWhen the judgment and all costs of the‘ roceedings
shall have been paid, the sherid‘ upon reasona le demand
shallideliver over-to the defendant the residue of the at.»
tached pgfnperty.-0! the proceeds thereof. 1 .a . .«
- Sec. 146. The aotionshereiu authorizedeto be -brought
by thesheriff, may be. prosecuted by r the» plaintif or under his direction, upon the delivery by him to the sheriff
iof an undertaking. executed by two suiiicient sureties,- to
ithe effect, that the plaintisif will indemnify the aherifl
from all damages,-costs and expenseson account thereof;
not exceeding two hundred and tifty dollars in any one am
tion.. :Such.suroti:es shall, in all cases, when» required by
the sheriff, justify=by making amaiiidavit, that each ism

; householder and worthidouble the amount of the penalty;

of the bond over and above all demands andliabilities.

recover,‘ andsbefore entering j udgtnent,,the court may, in
its discretion, require the plaintilf to cause -to be hled sa»
tisfactory security to abide the order of the court, touching the restitution of any estate on edects which-may be
directedsby such judgment to betransferred or delivered,
or the restitution of any money that may «be collected
under or by virtue of such judgment, in case the defendant
orhis» representatives, shall apply and be admitted to defend the action and shall succeed in such defence. . ; r 
-I SE06 159.- It’ ademurrer, answer or reply be frivolous,
the party prejudiced thereby, upon a previous notice of
five days, may apply to a judge of the court, either in. or
out of the court, for judgment thereon, and judgment
may be given accordingly. » no  . =; t l is 1

' CHAPTER II.

Issue ‘and mode q" 

.8I(mo1l 160. The diferent kinds of issue.
= - 161. Issue of law.
~ 162. Issue of fact. ' 163. Issue of ‘both 1aw'and me, thehsue or law tcbdtried
iirst. ' 0 ' - ’ - *
164. Trial dedned.'
, 165. Issues, how tried. _ g I .
166. Either party may give notice of trial and note of issue.
167. Order of disposing of issues on the calendar.

."

83:0. 160. Islsues arise upon the pleadings when aifiact
or conclusion of law is maintained by the one party,,end
oontroverited by tne other; they are of two kinds:

1. Of aw.

2. Of fact.
Bros. 161. An issue of law arises upon a demurrer to

the complaint, answer or reply, or to some part thereof’.
Site. 162. An issue of fact arises, _
1. Upon a material allegation in the complaint controverted by the answer; or,

21. Upon new matter in the answer controverted by the
rep y; or

8. Upon new matter in the reply, except an issue of
law is Joined thereon.

Site. 163. Issues. both a of law and- of fact -may arise
upon different parts of the-pleadings in the same‘ action-;c.
in such cases the issue of« law must be first tried, unless
the court otherwise direct.

SEO. 164. A trial is the judicial examination of the is~
sues between the parties, whether they be issues of lawor of fact.

‘Sun. 165. An issue of law must be tried by the court,
unless it be referred as provided in sections 180‘ and 181.’
An issue of fact in an action for the recovery ofé money
only, or of specific, real or personal property, or for a divorce from the marriage contract, on the ground of adultery, must be tried by a jury, unless a jury trial be
waived, as provided.in sections 176 and 181. Every other
issue is triable by the court, which,_ however, may order
the whole issue, or any specific question of fact involved
therein, to be tried by a jury, or may refer it as provided
in sections 180 and 181.

SEO. 166. At any time. after issue, and at least ten days
before the court, either party may give notice of trial.
The party giving the notice shall furnish the clerk; at
least four days before the court, with &=B0t& of-’ the issue,
containing the title of the action, the names of.-the attorney1s,.an¢.the time when. the last pleading». was served;
and the clerk shall thereupon enter the cause upon the
calendar, according to the date of the issue.

SE0. 167. The issues on the calendar shall be disposed
of in the following order, unless for the convenience of
parties or the dispatch of business, the court shall otherwise direet: ‘

1. Issues of fact to be tried by a jury.

2. Issues of fact to be tried by the court.

3. Issues of‘ law. I

to another» party, the court may order. the some-to be :deposited in court; or delivered to» such party with or without security, subject to the further directionof the court.

Sun. 155. Whenever in the exerciserof its authority, a
court ehall have ordered the deposit, delivery or convey.snce-of money or other property, and the order is diner
ieyed, the court, besides punishing the disobedience as

‘for contempt, may make an order requiring the sheriff to
‘tube the-money or property, and deposit, deliver or con
vey it in conformity with the direction of the court, or the.

court may pass title to real estate by its judgment, without conveyance, in like manner, as may now be done by

decree. _

- Site. 166. When the answer. of the defendant admits
part of the-p1aintiff’s claim. to be just, the courton motion,
ma - order such defendant to satisfy that part of the claim,
an may enforce. the order, as it enforces a provisional
remedy.

TITLE 8.
Q’ the trial and judgment in civil actions.

Orurru 1. Judgment uponfailure to answer.

2. Issue and mode of trial.

3. Trial by j ury. .

4. Trial by the court.

5. Trial by referees.

6. Maunetofe entering judgzqnt.

incrlox 157. Judgment, what.
158, Judgment on failure of defendantto ansvrer.

159. Judgment on frivolous dQl!W1'1'P1'b.9sU8V0r or reply.

Site. 157. A judgment is the dnaldetermination of’the
rights of the parties in the action.

8no.158..J meat ..bo_.had.'£th def tf'1
touiwer*ther‘:a‘ogpJ4int:—I.:(fol1on|z:~,1 Q  In

1.: In any action arising-on contract for the recovery of

I money only, the plaintiff may tile with the clerk proof of

-personal service of the summons and complaint on one or
more of the defendants, or of the summons, according’; to
the provisions of section 35, and that no answer has been
received. The clerk shall thereupon enter judgment for
the amount mentioned in the summons against the defendant or defendants, or against one or more of several defendants, in the cases provided for in section 41. But if
the complaint be not sworn to, and such action is on an
instrument for the payment of money only, the clerk, on
its production to him, shall assess the amount due to the
plaintiff thereon; and in other cases shall ascertain the
amountwhich the plaintiff is entitled to recover in such
-action from his examination under oath, or other proof,
and enter the judgment for the amount so assessed or
ascertained. In case the defendant give. notice of appearance in the action, he shall be entitled to five days notice
of the time and place of ‘such assessment.

2. In other actions, the plaintiff may, upon the like
roof, apply to the court after the expiration of the time
or answering, for the relief demanded in the complaint.

If the taking an account or the proof of any fact be necessary to enable the court to give judgment or to carry
the judgment into effect, the court may take the account,
or hear the proof, or may in its discretion, order a reference for that purpose. And where the action is for the,
recovery of money only, or of specific. ‘real or personal
property, with damages for the withholding thereof, the
court may order the damages to be assessed by a jury, or
if the examination of a long account be involved, by a
reference as above provided. In case the defendant give
notice of appearance in the action before the expiration

of the time for answering, he shall be entitled to eight
days notice of the time and place of application to the

court for the relief demanded" by the complaint,

3. In actions where the service of the summons was by
publication, the plaintiff may in like manner apply for
judgment, and the court shall thereupon cause proof to
be taken of the demandmentionéd in the complaint, and
in cas~ the defendant is anon; resident, shall cause the
plaintiff or his agent to be examined on , oath, as to any
payment that may have been made to such plaintiff, or to
any one for his use on account of such demand, and may
render judgment for the amount‘ which he ‘is entitled to

CHAPTER III.

N Trial by Jury.

' Slenort 168. Party noticing for trial may proceed with the case.
. Separate trials. '
169. Court to be furnished with copy pleading.
170. General and special verdicts defined.
171. When jury may render general or special verdict.
and when court may direct special finding.
172. Special finding shall control general verdict.
173. Jury to assess damages_in certain cases.
174. Entry of the verdict. Motion for a new trial.
175. Motion for a new trial, when to be heard."

SEC. 168. Either party giving the notice may bring the
issue to trial, and in the absence of the adverse party, unless the court, for good cause, otherwise direct, may proceed with his case, and take a dismissal of the complaint
or a verdict or a judgment as the case may require. A
separate trial between the plaintiif and any of the several
defendants may be allowed by the court whenever in its
opinion justice will be thereby promoted.

SEO. 169. When the issue shall be brought to trial by
the plaintiff, he shall furnish the court with a copy of the
summons and pleadings, with the offer of the defendant,
if any shall have been made. When the issue shall be
brought to trial by the defendant, and the plaintiff shall
neglect or refuse to furnish the court with a copy of the
summons and pleadings, and the offer of the defendant,
the same may be furnished by the defendant.

SEC. 170. A general verdict, is that by which the jury
pronounce generally upon all or any of the issues eitherf
in favor of the plaintiff or defendant. A special verdict
is that by which the jury find the facts on] y, leaving the
judgment to the court.

SE0. 171. In an action for the recovery of specific per-1
sonal property, if the property have not been delivered,
to the plaintiff, or the defendant by his answer, claim ai
return thereof, the jury shall assess the value of the pro- =
Eerty, if their verdict be in favor of the plaintiff, or if they 7

nd in favor of the defendant, that he is Blltllled to a return thereof, and may at the same time assess the damages, if any are claimed in the complaint or answer,'which

the prevailing partyhas sustained by reason of the detention, or taking and withholding such property. In’ every
action for the recovery of money only, or specific real
property, the jury inetheir discretion may render a general or special verdict. In all other cases the court may
direct the jury toiind a special verdict-~in-«lwritingeupon
all’ or any of the issues, and in rallreases may instruct
them, ifaheyi render a rgtenenal verdict, to .&d upon particular questions-‘uf:.~fact-,r to «be statedin-.w:riting, and may

.-~.divect.a~written»1inding thereon., The special verdict or

nnding-shall befiled with the clerk and entered upon the
minutes. ‘ A x
Site. 172. Where a special finding of facts shall be in"-consistent with the general verdict, the former shall control‘ the latter, and the court shall give judgment accordin l . '

 173. When a-verdict is found for the plaintiff in
an.action of the recovery of money, or for the defendant,
when a set off for the recovery of money is established
beyond the amount of the p!aintiiT’s claim as established,
the jury must also assess the amount of the recovery’; they
may ‘also under the.dix-cction of the court, assess the
,amount of the recovery when the court give judgmentfor
the plaintiff on the answer. If a set of established at the
trial exceedthe plaintiff’s demand, so established, judgment for the defendant must be given fort the, excess; or
if it appear thatthe defendant is entitled to any other
aiiirmative relief, judgment must be given accordingly.

S150. 174;. Upon receiving a verdict the clerk Shall make
an entry in his minutes, specifying the time and, place
of the trial, the names of the jurors and witnesses, the
verdict, and either the judgment rendered thereon or
an order that the cause be reserved for argument or
further consideration. If a different direction he not
given by the court, the clerk must enter judgment in
conformity with the verdict. If an exception be taken it
may be reduced to writing at the time, or entered in the
judge’s minutes, and afterwards settled as provided by
the rules of the court, and then stated in writing, in a case
or-separately, with so much of the evidence as may be,
material to the questions to be raised, but need not be
sealed orrsigned, nor need a bill of exceptions be made.
If the exceptions be in the first instance stated in, a case,
_and it be afterwards necessary to separate them, the separation may be made under the direction of the court or

Ha ‘ad, ethereof. The judge who tries the ,cap.se may, in
"lb ‘ii s'dretidn’,*entert'ain.‘a 1no‘tiot_i"‘to" be made“ on his min“tite”s‘,‘to‘ setfa”sid'e ai verdict, and" grant‘ a“ new trial, u'p"o'n'
'f’l=.l'xceptions, o'r"i‘or ins1_iiiicient" evidence,‘ or ‘for: excessive
“dtimagesgg but such motions, in actionsihereaftér tried,-7if
’heard'_'n‘pon the minutes, can" only be heard at the same

stslm or circuit, at which the trial islheardxg  .
“ ’ When such'motion_ is heard and decided upon the min_A ates of the judge,"and” anffappeal is‘ taken from the deci-i

“,‘si"on, a [case o'rexcepti‘ons must be settled in the usu'al‘fo’rm

“fiipon which the argument of the appeal mustbe ‘had’.

3-‘ “SEO. ' T75. Amotion for anew trial on a case or‘ exceptions or otherwise, and an’ application ' for judgment’ on
 spe'cial_verdiet or‘case"reserved for‘argun‘nent.or fur, ther‘conside'ration,‘or toset aside the report of referees,

"n'1ust,in the iirst'ins’tarice, be heard and"decid_ed at the

‘tired ‘t’, at special‘ term,_ or at a _1fegular'term. A '

-bl rll.

CHAPTER IV. ,

Trial by the Court.

Sicuon 176. Trial by jury, how waived.
177. On trial ‘by the court, judgment to be given in
twenty days, and what decision to contain.
178. Exceptions; howl*h‘nd’when taken.
179. Proceedings~,npou.jadgment~on‘issue of law. —~
SEO. _17.6'.M‘1‘"rial 'by‘{ju'ry may be waived bylthe several
ipafties, to an issue “of ‘fact, in‘ actions“ ‘on contract, with
the assent of“the court,‘in other actions, in the manner

following:  tr‘ tr ~   = 1., By failing to appear at the trial.

‘ 2.’ By written consent, in ‘person, or by attorney, iiled7
‘ with the clerk. '

. 3.,,By oral consent in-open court, entered in the minutes.
;SEO. 177; Upon a trial of a question of fact b the

.' court, its decision shall be given in ‘writing, and file withe‘{ the’, clerk within twenty days after the court at which the

"trial teok place. Judgment upon the decision shallbe

,enter_ed accordingly, and the judge shall state in his de,r9_'i8ioI'1 eeparatel  l " ‘ ’ i ‘
. ‘ ',''1._.'1‘he ‘facts gonad by him, and

i

' ” 2".°His c'oncl’usi'on‘s ot"law thereon.

Sec. 178. For the purpose, of an appeal, either party
may except to a decision on a matter of law, arisin on
such trial, within ten days after notice, in _writing, 0% the
judgment in the same manner and with the same effect
,'as upon a trial by jury. And either party desiring a review upon the evidence appearing upon the trial, either
of the questions, of fact or of the law, may, within ten
days after the notice of such judgment, or within the
time prescribed by the rules of the court, make a case or
exceptions in like manner as upon trials by jury; except
that the j udge, in settling the matter, must briefly specify
the facts found by him, and his conclusions of law.

SE0. 179. On a judgment for the plaintiff, upon an issue of law, the plaintiff may proceed in the manner prescribed by the first two sub-divisions of section 158, upon
the failure of the defendant to answer, where the sum~
mons was personally served. If judgment be for the defendant, upon an issue of law, and it’ taking an account
or the proot' of any fact be necessary to enable the court
to complete the judgment, a reference or assessment by a
jury may be ordered, as in that section provided.

~ onA1>'rEn_ v.

Trial by Referees

Sic-nut 180. All issues referrable by consent.
181. When reference may be orderedby court. , '
182. Mode of trial, motion to set aside report,'when motion
made and proceeding for that purpose.

183. Referees, how chosen. ,

Sec. 180. All or any of the issues in the action whether
of fact or of law, or both, may be referred upon the written
consent of the parties. ,

. Sap. 181. Where the parties do not consent, thecourt
may,_npon the application of either,'or of its own motion,
except where the investigation will require the decision
of difficult questions of law, direct a reference in the fol19WiD2' cases : l W : l h |

1. Where the trial of an issue of fact shall require the
examination of a long account on either side, in which
case the referees maybe directed to hear.‘ and ‘decide the
whole issue, or to report upon any’ specific question of
fact involved therein; or‘

2. Where the taking of an account shall be necessary for
the information of the court, before judgment, or for carrying ajudgment or order i_nto.,efI'ecr., or

3. Where a question of fact, other than upon the pleadings. shall arise, upon motion - or otherwise,-_ in any stage
of the action. T “ ‘

Site. 182. -The trial by referees. is rconductedin the same 1
manner and on similar notice, as a trial by the court; they
have the same power togrant adjournmente asathe court
upousuchtrial.. ., a _ __ H

They must state the facts found and the conclusions of 1
law separately, and their decision must be given and may '
be excepted to and reviewed in like manner, and by a
motion before the circuit court to set aside the report upon
a. case or bill of exc'eptions,~ to be settled by the‘ referees
as in cases of trial by-*thelcourt, and on which motion the
court may set aside such report or alter or modify the
same, and the judgment entered upon such report under
direction of the circuit courtmay ‘be appealedfrom to the
supreme court in like manner as judgments upon motions
for a new trial on casesor exceptions as provided in section 175. ' ‘

, The report of the referees upon the whole issue-etandjs”
as the’ decision of the court, and judgment may be en-_:
tered thereon in the same manner as if the action had?
been tried by the court, unless either party may desire to
make a motion to set aside the report, as herein provided.
And in case either party desires to make such a motion,
a‘ judge of the circuit cohrt may stay the ‘entry of judg-'

' ment for twenty days, to enable the party to prepare his

case or bill ofoexceptions, and in case It is prepared, all:
proceedings on the report shall he stayed until the decis1on of the circuit court thereon, or the case is set aside or
dismissed". When the reference is to report the facts, the
report has the effect of a special verdict. , A T A A
. Site. 183. In all cases of reference, the parties‘,"*exce‘p’t;
when an infant may be a party, may agree upon 'a suitable
person or persons, not exceeding three,a'rid ‘the reference
shall beordered accordingly; and it’ the parties do”not
agree, theiconrt shall appoint one or more referees, u‘_ot‘

l

exceeding three, who shall be free from exception,
if , - r

onsivrnn vi. A
Manner of entering £
..-iw til. .1 _‘ SIcr1eN.r184t Judpmint: may befor or against any aofeethe parties.
» .185."-‘ The relief to be awarded to: theiplaintifs r~ l
186. Rates of ‘damages where damages are; recoverable.
187. Judgment in action for recovery of personal property;
188. Judgment to be enteredby direction of circuit judge,
or report of referees. . e
189, Clerkto keep e judgment.book.:.' A   , :
191). Judgment tosbe, enteredjn judgment book.
191. Judgment roll,;o£ whatmmpoaed. , ;.
192. Judgment, when and how to be doeketed.

 184:. Judgment may be given fervor ageinst, onesore

more of several, plainti_fl's, a_nd.1;'o1:_o,r against oneor mere,
of ;« several defendants,,and it may determine the ultimate,
rights of the parties on each side, as between themselves,-.
-and may granteto, the defendant_any_ aiii.rmati.ve relieteto
-which_he may, be entitled. In an action against several,
"defendants, the court ‘may, in ,its_ discretion, render, udg-;:
inent against one or morepf ghem, .lea_ving theraction te;
proeee, against the,.oth,ers_ .Wheneve;; a several. J ndgmsnt
may be proper, The court may. also dismiss thescom-A
platnte. with. costs in favor of one, or more defendants, n,_
case of unreasonable. neglect on the part of the plaizatttf;
to serve thefsnmmons on other defend_a.nts,. or to procee In
the-.caus.e ‘againstzthe .defenda.nt or.defendan,te served-.3 W";
 Sso, 1,85.;,,The, relief. granted methe .plain,t.1if, ifthere be,
nolanswer, cannot exceed that which. he, shall have deg
mended in his complaint,.; but in guy oth_eir,cs,se,th,e con 
.,may..ggan_t,-him any relief ,consistent ,,with the case may e
eby. the. compl intend, embracedwithin the issye_- ‘. ,,,,J,,,,
. Sac.;18.6. ,, heneverdamages areerecoverpblee epla1ntiffmay claim: and recover, if ..11.o.- 8110??-, 1}11IlS91f,eut1t1.6‘f;
thereto, anyrate f dalnpges ,w,h_i_eh e m_1gh_t have heretofore recoY91.‘9d o_1j,the _samq,ca11s,e,o .act1on..§ . , . i 
SEC. 187. In an action to recover the possession of’personal property, judgment for the plaintiif may be for the

,possess1on, or for the recovery of possession, or the value

thereof in case a delivery cannot e had, and of damages
for the detention. If the property have been delivered

 Ip}ai!mMvaII!l'.wdefsndlInbrnlaim.za§rctuIn:»th6l!9
judgmenttférithe-dehendanta may: be .fer,a:retnrn«0f-.t ;
praperty’, on the‘-value thereof, in . case a=r:eturn.cannnt,.be,

ad; and damagesafor ‘taking and.withholding:the:sem9.t. .

Sm. - 188.!» J udgmrentr upon an; .issue pf: law- or. of.f9-(st: or.
upon oanfesIion,« =or.*’upon failures to answer. (except where.
therelsric is authorized to eurter.vthe~rsame~by; the.-iirat-sub.-.
division of ' -section‘ one--hundred and: iiftyueight, [158] s 
by» section’-two» h'£lDdl1ed.e-‘and eéghty-eighty) ;shall,..int, the:
iimtnnstanoey beventered: upon the :dirention;.of::a-Qimuitq
judge, or report of referees, subject to rev.iew-on,:th.e 
mand of either party, as herein provided. 

SEC. 189. The clerk shall keep among the records of
the court, a book for the entry of judgments to be called.
the “judgment book.” * a

81:0. 190. The judgment shall be entered in the judgment-*~b‘o‘elr, ~an~dsshal1sqmeifysclear1y~ th\9;s£61iQf granted,
or other determination of the action. '

SEO. 191. Unless the party or hisuwtonney ‘shall.«h1rnish a judgmentu-ole], the: clwk-,. immediately‘; after entering the judgment, shall attach together and file the followin papers, which shall constitute the judgment roll :

1. En case the complaint--bemot answered by any defendant, the summons and complaint or copies thereof,
proof of service, and thwt -no-‘answer has been received,
 A ,rt,,.i£,an_y, and a copy of the jud meat. ,
2. )n all other cases the summons, plea lugs,‘ or copies
thereof, and a" copy of the ‘ju‘dg’ment','with any verdict
ortreplort, the offer of the“ ’d‘efend‘ant, exceptions, case,
a‘n‘d‘a -‘brd*e‘rs~ ‘andpapers in-‘any Jmay:.involving the merits and necessaril affecting the judgment.

SEO. 192. On 'ng.:a2-judagment.rel1,,npo_n agjudgment.
directing ‘manhole-.0:-in spurt thstpaymsentt of-"money, it"
may he, docketed _with the clerk of the circuit court of ‘
the county where it was rendered, and in any other
county, upon filing with the clerk of the circuit court
thereof a transcript of theoriginal “docket,”‘ and shall
be alien on the real‘ property in the countyvwhere the
sametis-=d'oeketsd, of-‘every’ person -agatnst whom such

* judgment shall be rendered, and which -he may have at

the time of docketing thereof, in the county in which such
real estate .=is situated, or which he shall -aequireiatany
tihée thereafter, for ten years ‘from the‘ time-or’. docketingi
the-same,» in -the ‘county ’-where it was wandered. ' But
whenever an appeal from any judgment‘ shall be~pending,.

and the undertaking requisite to stay execution on such
judgment shall have been given, and the appeal perfected
as provided in the code, the court in which such judg-A
ment was recovered, may, on special motion, after notice,
*- to the person owning the judgment, on such terms as they
‘shall see fit, direct an entry to be made by the clerk on—
the docket of said judgment, that the same is “secured.
on appeal,” and thereupon it shall cease, during the pen-'
dency of the appeal, to be a lien on the real property of
the judgment debtor, as against purchasers and mortgagees in good faith. a ‘ l . TITLE 9. ,
Of the Execution of the J udgment in  Actions.

Gnu-113:1. The execution. -  _W___ ‘W _ _,
‘' "““'*‘“_‘;f_f: :2. Proceedings supplementary to execution.

u-J’ . Q-I-£'..«".L.) 1

CHAPTER I.

The Bwecution.

Sxcrxou 193. The exccution to be issued within two years ofccurso.
194. After two years to be issued only by leave of court,
and leave how obtained.
195. Other judgments, how enforced, court may pass title
by judgment.
196. The dilferent kinds of execution.
197. To what counties execution may be issued.
198. Execution against the person, in what cases and
- when.
199. Form of the execution.
200. To be returnable within sixty days.
201. Existing laws relating to execution continued until
otherwise provided. '

Site. 193.; Writs of execution for the enforcement of
judgments as now used, are modified in conformity to this
title, and the part in whose favor judgment has been
heretofore or shally hereafter be given, may, at any tin!‘

within two years after the entry of _jndg_ment, proceed, to
enforce the same, as prescribed by this‘ title. , ‘ ', ’

_SEo. 194. After the lapse of two years from the entry
of, judgment, an execution can heissued only by the leave
of the court, upon motion, with personal notice to_ the
adverse party, unless the be absent or nonresident, or cannot be found to make such service, in which case, such
service may be made by publication, or in such other
manner as the court shall direct. Such leave shall not be
given unless it be established by the oath of the party, or
othersatisfactoryproof} that the udgment, or somepart
thereof, remains unsatisfied and due. When the j udgment shall have been rendered in a court ofjustice of the
peace, and docketed in theofiice of the clerk of the circuit
court,,the application for leave to issue execution must be
to the court where judgment is docketed. 1

SEO. 195. Wherea judgment requires the payment of
money, or the delivery of real or personal property, the
same may be enforced in those respects by execution as
provided in this title. Where it requires the performance
of any other act, a certified copy of tbejudgment may be
served upon the party against whom it is given, or the

erson or ofiicer who is required to obey the same, and
is obedience thereto enforced. If he refuse he may be
punished by the court as for a contempt.

Size. 196. There shall be three kinds of execution :‘ one
against the property of the judgment debtor; another
against his person ;.and the third for the delivery of the
possession of real or personal property, or such delivery
with damages for withholding the same. They shall be
deemed the process of the court, but they need not be‘
sealed nor subscribed, except as prescribed in section 199.

SEC. 197. Where the execution is against the property _‘
of the judgment debtor, it may be iesned to the sheriff of

any county where the judgment is docketed. Where it
requires the delivery of real or personal property, it must
be issued to the sheriff of the county where the property
or some part thereof is situated. Executions may be issued
at the same time to different counties. Real property
adjudged to be sold, must be sold in the county where it
lies, by the sheriff of that county or by a referee appointed
by the court for that purpose, and thereupon the sheri&' or
referee, shall execute a conveyance to the purchaser, which
conveyance shall be effectual to pass the rights and intereat of the pgties adjudged to be sold.

SE6? 198.’ If the action be one in Which the’ defendaht”
rnightjhaye been arrested as"prc‘n’7ide'ci' in section 87’a‘iid“
section 89, an execution a‘ ainst the person of the‘ judgmeht debtormay be issue to any county within the‘jui'is= ‘
diction of ' the court, after the return of an exectitibxi”
agaiiist his property unsatisfied iii whole 'or'in' part. , _

Site. 199. The execution must be directed to the sh’e‘rfR“
or coroner, when the_sheriii' is ‘a party, or intere‘ste&’“
subscribed b the party isstiing itor his attorney, and"
muet intelligi ly refer to the judgment, stating the cou'rt;*
the county where the judgment roll or transcript is iiled,
the'_na’m‘es_‘of the parties, the amount of the judgment,"
if it'b_e' for money, and the amount actually due thereon;
and the time of docketing in the county to which the ex“-‘
ecution is issued, and shall require the omcer siibste'n'a‘
tially as follows: ’ "

,1. If it be againstithe property of‘ the judg"ment'debtbiit shall _require the oiiicer to ’satisfy' the judgtnent out‘6i'
the eirsenal property of such debtor, and if sufficient pet?’
sona property cannot be found out of the real property:
belbnging to him ‘on the day when the judgment was‘
docketed in the county or-‘at any t‘ime‘ther'eafter. _

2. If it be against real or ersmnal property in tile
ha‘nds'of'persona.1represehtatiy s, heirs, devisees,legatee'8‘,
tenants of real property, or trustees, it shall require‘
the officer to satisfy the ‘judgnient out of ‘such property.

3, If it be against the person of the judgment deht'ol*,"
it"shall' require the oflicer to erreét such debtor and court‘
mit himjto the jail of the county, until he shall pay the”
judgment, or be discharged according to law.

4. If it be for the delivery of the ossession of real or‘
pereonal property, it shall require t’e oiiicer to deliver‘
the ’os's‘e$si’on of the same, particularly describing it,’to
to t e parjty entitled "thereto, and may, at the same time‘, '
re'qu’i’reIthe_ ,oiii’cer' to ‘satisfy’ any costs, damages, or rent?
and proiits, recovered by the same judg'me'nt, out of the‘
pers‘onel‘p1~ope'r’ty of the party against whom it was fen’-'
dered, and the value of the property for which the 
m_ent_ \'w’a‘s recovered, by the same judgment, out‘of the
personal’ pro erty of the party against whom it was rdn‘-‘r
dered, arid t e value of the property for‘which the jnd -'
ment was r'e‘c'ov_e'rd, o 'he‘specii1ed therein, if a delive ‘
thereof can’n'ot’be_had,’and 1f su‘$c’ient perso'nal'prope I‘
cannot be“fou'nd,- then out oi’ the’ reel ro'per,t' belon ng’
to him on the day when the judgineh ' was ‘ckete , of’

at any time thereafter, and shell, in that respect, be
deemed an execution against property.

SEC. 200. The execution shall be returnable within
sixty days after its receipt by the officer, to the clerk with

. Whom record of judgment is iiled,

SEC. 201. Until otherwise provided by the legislature,
the existing provisions of law, not in conflict with this
chapter, relating to executions, and their incidents, the
property liable to sale on execution, including the sale
and redemption of property, the powers and rights of
oflicers, their duties thereon, and the proceeding to enforce
those duties, and the liability of their sureties, shall apply to the executions prescribed by this chapter.

CHAPTER II.

Proceedings Supplemco tary to the Execution.

SECTION 202. When execution returned unsatisfied, order for discovery of property allowed. Also, when judgment
debtor refuses to apply property to satisfy judgment.

203. Manner of proceeding to examine judgment debtor.
204. Any debtor may pay execution against his creditor to
sheriff.
205. Examination of debtors or of those having property
belonging to them.
206. Witnesses required to testify.
207. Compelling party or witnesses to attend.
208. What property may be ordered to be applied to the
execution.
209. Judge may appoint a receiver, and prohibit transfer of
. property. , _ , , ‘ ff ' 
 Proceedingsiupen élaini of aiiother airly  iprepefty
 "Pl _ : per a dehial of 'indebte'd(ness"to jii<§;i11ezit'deIitor.
: 21,1. ,Re,f_er,ence by judge. I  H , , '4 ' '
v‘ -212-u~C°5t'3.°f pr°°°°di‘h8.5v.. H ’ m’ I:
 213. Disobedience of order. hopumnished.
'“”‘ -"i"""‘.‘ ii ": H :1’. I‘~'Hi»[ Alt ')1Hlv<l mi vii‘. u :- H
,{4, .302.;§Vhen an._.exnqut.ipn.=9g,ainst. npestv ot the
° mind t°rm0r«0f..v~nan can nfgsevma dehtqrs inths.
ll

%§!Badn4ement,.iasuedtm«hexe»heri of..t..he.¢9untar.. ii. .

he resides, or if he do not reside in the state, to the s eri

I
~ :

of a county where a judgment roll or a transcript of a
justic'e’s judgment for ten dollars ‘or upwards, exclusive of
costs, is tiled, i_s returned unsatisiied, in whole or in part,"
the judgment’ creditor, at any time after such return is
lmade, is entitled to an order from the judge of the court,
or a county judge, or court commissioner of the county
to which the execution was issued, requiring such judgment debtor to appear and answer concerning his property before such judge, at a timeand place specified
in the order, within the county to which the execution was issued. After the issuing of an execution‘against property, and upon proof by afiidavit, of a party

or otherwise, to the satisfaction of the court, or a judge ‘

thereof, a county judge, or a court commissioner, that any

judgment creditor [debtor] residing in the county where
such judge or officer resides, has property which he unjustly refuses to apply towards the satisfaction of the
judgment, such court or judge may, by an order, require

the judgment ‘debtor to appear, at a specified time and
place, to answer concerning the same, and such proceedings may thereupon be had for the application of the property of the judgment debtor towards the satisfaction of
the judgment, as are provided upon thereturn of an execution. On. an examination under this section, either
party may examine witnesses on his behalf, andthe judgment debtor may be examined in the same manner as a
witness. Instead of the order requiring the attendance of
judgment debtor, the judge may, upon proof by aliidavit,
or otherwise, to his satisfaction, that there is danger of
the judgment debtor’s leaving the state, or concealing himself, an that thereis reason to believe he has property
which he unjustly refuses to apply’ to such judgment,
issue a warrant requiring the sheriff of any county where
suclljdebtor may be, to arrest him and bring him before
suc 'udge. .

 203. Upon being brought before the judge, he
may be examined on oath,, and if it then appears that
there is danger of the debtor’s leaving the state, and that
he has property which he has unjustly refused to apply to
such judgment, he may be ordered to enter into an undertaking, with one or more sureties, that he will, from time
to time, attend before the judge as he shall direct, and
that he will not during the ‘pendency of the proceedings,
disposeof any portion of his property not exempt 

execution._ In default of entering‘ into such undertaking,

he "may be committed to prison by warrant of the judge
as for acontempt. 0 person shall, on examination pur~
suant to this chapter, be excused from answering any
question, on the ground that his examination will tend to

_ convict him of the commission of a fraud ; but his answer

shall not be used as evidence against him in any criminal
proceeding or prosecution, '

' ” Sec. 204. After the issuing of execution. against property, any person indebted to the judgment debtor, may
pay to the sheriff, the amount of hisdebt, or so much
thereof as shall be necessary to satisfy the execution, and
the sheriff’s receipt shall be a sufticient dischargefor the
amount so paid. ‘

SEO. 205. After the issuing or return of an execution

against property of the judgment debtor or any one of

several debtors in the same judgment, and upon an aflie

davit, that any person, or corporation has property of such
judgment debtor, or is indebted to him in an amount ex~'
ceeding ten dollars, the judge may, by an order, require

such person or corporation, or any officer or member
thereof, to appear at a specified time and place, and answer concerning the-same. The judge may also, "in his
discretion, require notice of such proceeding, to be given
to ‘any party to the action in such manner as may seem
to him proper. , _

SE0. 206. Witnesses may be required to appear and

'testify on any proceedings under this chapter, 1n the same

manner as upon the trial of an issue.

‘ Sun. 207. The party or witness may be required to at-.
tend before the judge, or before a referee appointed by
the court or judge; if before a referee, the examination

, shall be taken by the referee, and certified to the judge;
_all examinations and answer before a judge or referee,

under this chapter, shall . be on oath, except that when a
corporation answers, the answer shall be on oath of an
officer thereof.

SEC. 208. The judge may order any property of the
judgment debtor, not exempt from execution, in the hands

either of himself or any other person, or due to the judg" ment debtor, ‘to be applied towards the satisfaction of the
, ' judgment, except that the earnings of the debtor for his
personal services, at any time within sixty days next pre‘ceding the order,‘ can not be so applied, when it is made

to appear by the debtor’s afiidavit, or otherwise, that such

earnings are necessary for the use of 9. family, supported
wholly or in part by his labor.

SEc_._209. The judge may also, b order, appoint a receiver ofthe property of the ju gment debtor, in the
same n;,1an’1'1'er arid with the like ai.1’1_thor_ity, as if the apipointjmeut was made by the court,“ accgording to section
152. But beforejthe appointment of such receiver, ’the
judge shall asce'rtain,~if practicable, by the oath of the
party, or otherwise, whether any other supplementary
proceedings are so pending against the udgment debtor ;
the plaintiff therein shall have noticeto appearibefore him,
and shall likewise have notice of all subsequent proceedings in relgatioii _to such receivership. T

No more than one receiver of the property of a judgment debtor shall be appointed; The judge may also

ul.

by _order forbid a transf r or other disposition of the property of the judgment ebtor, not exempt from execution

and any interference therewith.
,SEO. 210. If it appear ‘that a person or corporation,

alleged to have property of the judgment debtor, or indebtzed to him, claims an interest in the property, adverse
to‘I11n:,'or denies the debt, such interest or debt shall be
recoverable only in an action against such person or corporation by the receiver, butthe judge may, by order,
forbid a transfer or other disposition of such property or
interest till a ruiiicient opportunity be given’ to ethereeeiverto commenced the action, and prosecute the same
tojudgrnent and execution; but such order may be medified or dissolved, ‘by the judge granting the same, at
any time, on such security as he shall direct. '

SEO. 2L1. The judge may, in his discretion, order a reference to a referee agreed upon or approved by him, to
report the evidence or the facts. ‘ i T

S130. 212. The judge may allow to the judgment creditor
or to any party so eXan;1ined,i Whether a party to the action or not,"witnesses fees and disbursrnents, and a fixed
sum in addition not exceeding dfteen dollars as costs.”

Snob. 213. If any person, party or witness, disobey an
,o1*der of the judge or referee duly served, such person,
party or witness may be punished by the j udgeas for _a
contempt, and in all cases of commitment, under this
chapter, the person committed, may, in case of iriabilty
to perforin the act required, or to endure the imprisonment, be discharged froni imprisonment by the cont-t'or
judge’ committing him, or the court in which the Judgment was rendered, on such termsas may be just. i

TITLE 16.

Of the Costs in 07}mIl Actions.

zualonon 244. Fee bill abolished. allowances given termed. costs.
’ ' 215. When allowed, of course to plaintif.
216.’ When allowed to defendant. '
217. When allowed to either party in the discretion 0F the
court. . I
218. Amount of costs allowed.
219. Additional allowance of a per centage on the recovery
22,0; P.er.een_tage,.how, computed. ' I i
221. Interest on verdict or report, when allowed.
. .222. Costs, how to beinserted in judgment.
223. Referees “fees.
224. Costa on postponement of trial.
_225. Costs on motion.
226. Costs against ‘infant plaintiff.
_227. ,.Costs in an action by or against an executor, admin, _ istrator, or trustee of an express trust or a person
exppesslyanthorized ‘by statute to sue.
228. Costs against assignee of [cause of action after action
brought. ' '
~ 229. Costa en a settlement.

8.50. 214,. All _st_atute,s.estab_1ishinglor regulating the costs
or fees of att01:ney_s,, solicitors and councel in civil action's,',‘
and all existing rules %ind.provisions of law restricting or

, controling the rightof aparty to_ agree with a.n_at‘torney,

solicitor, or counsel, for his cornpenpsation, are repealed,
:and hereafter the measure of, such compensation shall‘ be.
~.leftto. thetagreetnent, expressor. i!DP1.,ied, of the parties.
;_But there may be allowed to the;p_rev,a_iling party, upon

. ,,,thejudg,u1eut,,certaix1 ,8l1_;IlS, by Way; of indemnity, for his’

expenses in the actions, which a,ll9,vstances are in thisact

,, étqrmg. 2. costs.

SEC. 215. CJBtS shall be allowed of course to the plaintiif, upon a recovery in_t,he_t'o1lo,wing,c_ases: I

1.,-1.0 an actionfor the recovery of real property, oruwhen
a claim of title to real property arises on the proceedings,
or;is centilied by the _<;_om‘t. $9.uh_£We mine in ,question at
the,x,r1al.

2. In an action to recover the, possession of personal
property. ' _

3. In the actions of which, according to law, a court of
justice of the peace hasno jurisdiction. .

4. In an action for t.he recovery of money, where the
plaintijf shall recover fifty dollars or more. But in anl‘action for assault, battery,» false imprisonment, libel, slander,
malicious pro.=ecntio_n, criminal conversation or seduction,

if the plaintiff. recover less than fifty dollars damages, he

shall rec iver no more costs than damages; and in an action to recover the possession of personal property, if the
plaintiff recover less than iifty dollars damages, he shall
recover no more costs than damages, unless he recovers
also property, the value of which, with the damages,

‘amounts to fifty dollars. .

Such value must be determined by the jury, court or
referee, by whom the action is tried.

When several actions shall be brought on_ one bond,
recognizance, promissory note, bill of exchange, or other
instrument, in writing, or in any other case, for the same
cause of action, against several parties who might have
been joined as defendant in the same action, no costs,
other than disbursements, shall be allowed to the plaintiff,
in more than one of such actions, which shall be at his
election, provided that the party or parties proceeded
against in such other action or actions, shall, at the time
of the commencement of the previous action or actions
have been within this state, and not secreted.

Sac 2l6.'Costs shall be allowed of course to the defendant in the actions mentioned in the last section, unless
the plaintiff be entitled to costs therein.

SEO. 217. In other actions costs may be allowed or not,
in the discretion of the court.

Where there are several defendants not united in interest, and making separate defences by separate answers,
and the plaintiff fails to recover judgment against all, the
court may award costs to such of the defendants as have

judgment in their favor, or any of them.

In the following cases the costs of the appeal shall be
in the discretion of the court:

1. VVhere a new trial shall be ordered ; i

2. Where a judgment shall be afrirmed in part and
reversed in part.

Site. 218. When allowed, costs shall be as follows :

1. To the plaintiff for all proceedings before notice of

trial (including judgment when entered), in an action
Where judgment upon failure to answer may be had
without application to court, seven dollars. In an action
when jud ment can only be taken on application‘ to’ the
court, twelve dollars. For all subsequent proceedings
before trial, seven dollars.

2. To the defendant, for all proceedings before notice
of trial, five dollars; for all subsequent proceedings before trial, seven dollars. - ,

. 3. For the trial of issues of law, if separate from the
trial of issues of fact, to the plaintiff five dollars; to the
defendant ‘rive dollars.

4. For the trial of issues of fact, if separate from ‘the
trial of the issues of law, to the plaintiff‘ five dollars; to
the defendant live dollars.

5. Forthe trial of issues of fact and of law, when tried
at the same time, to the plaintiff ten dollars; to the defendant ten dollars.

6. To either party on appeal to the supreme court, lifteen dollars. Appeals from orders to the circuit court to
either party, five dollars.

7. The plaintiff may, in all cases, recover costs and disbursments in suits against non-residents when he has attached real estate without regard to the amount of the
recovery, at and after rates allowed by this act. _

SEC. 219. In addition to these allowances, if the action
be for the recovery of money, or of real or personal property, and a trial has been had, the court may, in diilicult
or extraordinary cases, make an allowance of not more
than ten per cent. on the recovery or claim, as.in the next‘
section prescribed, for’ any amount not exceeding-five
hundred dollars; and not more than five per cent. for any
additional amount.

Such allowance may likewise be made upon the recovery of judgment in any action for the partition of real
property, or for the foreclosure of a mortgage, or in which
a warrant of attachment has been issued, or for the construction of a will or other instrument in writing, and on
proceedings to compel the determination of claims to real
property, and also in any case where the prosecution or
defence has been unreasonably or unfairly conducted.

SEC 220. These rates shall be estimated as follows:

1. If the plaintiff recover judgment, it shall be upon‘
the amount of money or the value of the property recov- l
cred, or claimed, or attached, or affected by the construc-‘

tion of the will, orsonght to be partitioned, or‘the amount
found due upon the mortgage, in an action ‘for foreclosure. i

2. If the defendant recover judgment, it shall be upon
the amount of money, or the value of the propsrt claimed by the plaintitl‘, or attached, or affected by the construction of the will, or if the defendant’s interest ‘in
property sought to be partitioned or the amount claimed
in an action for foreclosure, such amount of value must
be determined by the jury, court or referees, by whom
the action is tried, or judgment rendered, or the commissioners appointed to make partition in an action therefor.

SEC. 221. When the judgment is for the recovery of
money, interest from the time of the verdict or report
until judgmentbe "iinally entered, shall be computed by

the clerk, and added to the costs of the party entitled"
‘thereto.

S120. 222. The clerk ‘shall insert in the entry of judgment, on the application of the prevailing party, upon
two days’ notice to the other, the sum of the charges for
costs, as above provided, and the necessary disbursements
and fees of officers allowed by law, including the compensation of referees, and the expense of printing the pa ers
upon any appeal. The disbursements shall be state in
detail, and verified by aifidavits, which shall be filed.

SEC. 223. The fees of referees shall be three dollars to
each per day spent in the business of the reference; but
the parties may agree in writing upon any other rate of
compensation.

SE0. 224. When an ‘application shall be made to a court
or referees, to postpone atrial, the payment, to the adverse party, of a sum not exceeding ten dollars, besides
the fees of witnesses, may be ‘imposed, as the condition
of granting the postponment. _

81:0. 225. Costs may be allowed on a motion, in the dis
cretion of the court, not exceeding ten dollars.

’SEC. 226. When costs are adjudged against an infant
plaintiff, the guardian by whom he appeared in the action
shall be responsible therefor, and payment may be enforced by attachment.

‘ SEo.“.227. In an action prosecuted or defended by an
executor, administrator, trustee of an express trust, or a
person expressly authorized by (statute, costs shall be recovered, as in an action by:-and against a person prosecuting or defending in his own right, but such‘ costs shall be

chargeable only upon or collected of the estate, fund or
party represented, unless the court shall direct the same
to be paid by the plaintiff or defendant personally, for
mismanagement or bad faith in such action or defence.
But this section shall not be construed to allow costs
against executeasuand administrators «where they are now
exempt by law.

SEC. 228. In actions in whiehthe oanseof actionaihall,
by assignment after the commencement of the action, or

_ In any other manner, become the property of a person not

aparty to the action, such person shall be liable for the
costs, in the same manner as if he were a party, and payment thereof may be enforced by attachment.

SEO. 229. Upon the settlement, before judgment, of
any action mentioned in section 215, no greater sum shall
he demanded from the defendant as costs, than at the rate
prescribed in section 218. TITLE 11.
Of Appeals in am scum.

Guam: 1. Appeals in general.
2. Appeals to the supreme court from judgments.

3. Appeals to the circuit court or county court on justices
judgments.

§

CHAPTER I.

Appeals in general.

Blcrrox 230. Appeals may be taken instead of writs of error.
‘ 231. Orders made out of court, how vacated or modified.

232. Who may appeal.

233. Appeal, how made.

234. Clerk to transmit papers to appellate court.

235. What may be-received by appellate court.

236. Judgment on appeal.

237. In what cases appeal taken to supreme court.

238. Within what time taken.

239. Appeal from orders, and what orders may be appealed
from. '

240. N o appeal to supreme court from order of chambers.
unless allirmed by circuit court.

241. Appeals from order dissolving or discharging attachment or injunction, when taken and what security.

242. Appeals from orders at chambers to circuit court and

'order for that purpose, how entered.

243. Injunctions or attachments not to be dissolved at chambers by any other than a circuit judge.

81:0. 230. It shall not be necessary to issue a writ of error
to bring up any judgment or order for review before the
supreme court, but the same may be reviewed as prescribed by this act by a proceeding which is hereby denominated an. appeal, and the ‘parties to such proceeding
shall be known as appelant an respondent.

31:0. 231. An order made out of court, without notice
to the adverse party, may be vacated or modified without
notice, by the judge who made it, or may be vacated or
modihed on notice, in the manner in which other motions
are made.

Site. 232. Any party aggrieved, may appeal in the cases
prescribed in this title.

Site. 233. An appeal must be made by the service of a
notice in writing, on the adverse party, and on the clerk,
with whom the judgment or order appealed from is entered, stating the appeal from the same, or some specified
part thereof. When a party shall give in good faith notice’

of appeal from a judgment or order, and shall omit through
mistake, to do any other act necessary to perfect the appeal or to stay proceedings, the court may permit an
amendment on such terms as may be just

Site. 234. Upon an appeal allowed by this act to the

supreme court from a judgment, the clerk with whom the ;
notice of appeal is filed, shall at the expense of the appel-‘

ant, forthwith transmit to the supreme court, the judgment roll, unless the circuit court shall direct a certified
copy of the judgment roll to be transmitted, instead of the
original, and on an appeal allowed from an order by this
act to the supreme court, the clerk with whom the notice
of appeal is filed, apd the order entered, shall forthwith
transmit to the supreme court a certified copy of the order,
the notice of appeal, and the papers upon which the order
was granted.

SEC. 235. Upon an appeal from a judgment, the court
ma review an intermediate order, involving the merits
an , necessar' y affecting the judgment.

81:0. 236. . pon an appeal from a judgment or order the ,

supreme court may reverse, affirm or modify the judgment

or order appealed from, in the respect mentioned in the

notice of appeal, and as to any or all of the parties and
may if necessary or proper, order a new trial. When the

judgment or order is reversed or modified, the supreme

court shall remit its judgment or decision to be enforced
accordingly. “

SEO. 237. Appeals to the supreme court shall be taken
from circuit courts, and from county courts in common
law cases, and from any court of record having common
lgtwl j urisdiction where no other court of appeal is provided

y aw. ,

Site.‘ 238. Appeals may be taken to the supreme 
tl‘om judgments in civil actions, within two years from
entry thereof; and from orders made‘ by the circuit court
within thirty days’ after notice of the same.

Sea. 239. The following orders may be carried by appeal to the supreme court: _ ‘

1, An order affectin a substantial right made in such

‘action,’ when such or er in effect determines the action,

anil prevents a judgment from’ which an appeal might be
ta en.

' '2} A final order afecting a substantial right made in
special proceedings, or upon a summary application in an
action after judgment.

3. When an order grants or refuses, continues or modiiies a provisional remedy, or grants, refuses or dissolves
an injunction or attachment, when it grants or refuses a
new trial, or when it sustains or over-rules a demurrer: or

4.’ When it involves the merits of an action, or some’

part thereof.

SEO: 240. N o appeal shall be taken to the supreme
court from an order made at chambers, unless‘ the same
shall be afiirmed by the circuit court; and from the order
of said court, affirming, setting aside, or altering the
same, an appeal may be taken, provided such order is one
of those enumerated in section two ‘Hundred and thirtynine of this chapter. ' ,

Bus. 241. Upon an order made by a circuit judge or
court dissolving or discharging an attachment or injunc’tion, the party interested incontinuing the same, ma

give immediate notice of appeal to the opposite party, an

tender him a written undertaking with such surety as the
_,a.ago .m~.... ...-ect, conditioned to pay all costs and damages sustained by such party, in case the appeal be decided in his favor. And thereupon the court may make’

an order in its discretion, to continue such attachment or
injunction in force until the decision on the a peal, unless the respondent shall, at any time pen ing such
appeal, give a written undertaking, with sufficient surety,
to the appellant, to abide and perform the judgmentin
the action, if it shall be in favor of the a pellaut. But
the court shall discharge such order, it’ it shall appear at
any time that such appeal is not diligently prosecuted,
and such want of diligence shall be deemed prime faoie
evidence of a breach of the apellants undertaking.

Sec. 242. Appeals from an order made at chambers,
upon notice. may be taken within ten days after written
notice of the making of such order; and such appeals
shall be taken to a regular or special term of the circuit

court. For the purpose of such appeal, either party may
require the order to be entered of record by the clerk, and
it shall be entered accordingly.

Sec. 243. N o injunction or attachment shall be dissolved at chambers by any other than a circuit judge; but
a court commissioner may discharge an attachment, as
provided in section 158 of this code.

CHAPTER II.

Appecds to tire Supreme 00m-t from Judgments.

Se'c'rIoN 244. On any appeal security must be given to pay costs and
damages not exceeding two hundred and fifty dollars.

245. On judgments for money security to stay execution.
246. If judgments be to deliver documents, they must be
deposited.

247. If to execute conveyance it must be executed and deposited-.

248. Security where judgment is to deliver property, or for
sale of mortgaged premises.

249. Stay of proceedings upon security given.

250. Undertaking may be in one instrument or several.

251. Security to be approved and to justify.

252. Perishable property may be sold notwithstanding an
appeal.

253. Undertaking must be filed.

SE0. 244. To render an appeal effectual for any purpose, a written undertaking must be executed, on the part I
of the appellant, by at least two sureties, to the effect.
that the appellant will pay all costs and damages, which ;
may be awarded against him, on the appeal, not exceeding *
two hundred and iifty dollars; or that sum must be depos- '
ited with the clerk, with whom the judgment or order
was entered, to abide the event of the appeal. Such undertaking or deposit may be waived by a written consent
on the part of the respondent.

Site. 245. If the appeal be from a judgment directin
the payment of money, it shall not stay the execution o ,
the judgment, unless awritten undertaking be executed
on the part of the appellant, by at least two sureties, to
the eifect that if the judgment appealed from, or any part
thereof, be afiirmed, the appellant will pay the amount
directed to be paid by the judgment or the part of such
amount as to which the judgment shall be affirmed, only
in part, and all the damages which shall be awarded
against the a pellant upon the appeal.

SE0. 246. t‘ the judgment appealed from direct the as- V

signment or delivery of documents or personal property,
the execution of the judgment shall not be stayed by appeal, unless the things requird to be assigned or delivered,
be brought into court, or placed in the custody of such
ofiicer or receiver as the court shall appoint, or unless the
undertaking be "entered into on the part of the appellant,
by at least two sureties, and in such amount as the court
or a judge thereof, or county judge, shall direct, to the cf.
feet that the appellant will obey the order of the appellate court upon the appeal.

SEC. 247. if the judgment appealed from direct the
execution of a conveyance or other instrument, the execution of the judgment shall not he stayed by the appeal,
until the instrument shall have been executed and deposited with the clerk with whom the udgment is entered,
to abide the judgment of the appelate court.

SEC. 248. It‘ the judgment appealed from, direct the
sale or delivery of possession of real property, the execution of the same shall not he stayed, unless a written
undertaking be executed on the part of the appellant with
two sureties, to the effect, that during the possession of
such property by the appellant, he will not commit or
suffer to be committed, any waste thereon, and that if the
judgment be atiirmed, he will pay the value of the use
and the occupation of the property from the time of the
appeal until the delivery of possession thereof, pursuant
to the judgment, not exceeding asum to be iixed by a
judge of the court, by which the judgment was rendered,
and which shall be specified in the undertaking. When
the judgment is for the sale of mortgaged premises, and
the payment of a deficiency arising upon the sale, the

undertaking shall also provide for the payment of such

deficiency.

81:0. 249. Whenever an appeal shall be perfected as:
provided by sections 245, 246, 247, and 248, it shall stayj
all further proceedings in the court below, upon the j udg-‘
ment appealed from, or upon the matter embraced therein; but the court below may proceed, upon any other
matter included" in the action and not affected by the
judgment appealed from.

81:0. 250. The undertakings prescribed by sections 244,
245, 246, and 248, may be in one instrument, or -several,
at the option of the appellant, and a copy including the
names and residence of the sureties must be served on
the adverse arty, with the notice of appeal, unless a deposit is ma e as provided ,in section 244, and notice
thereof given.

SEC. 251. An undertaking upon an appeal, shall be of
no effect, unless it be accompained by the atlidavit of the
sureties, that they are each worth double the amount
specified therein. The respondent may, however, except
to the sufiiciency of the sureties, within ‘ten days after
notice of the appeal, and unless they or other sureties
justify before a judge of the court below, or a county
judge as prescribed by sections 103 and 104, within ten
days thereafter, the appeal shall be regarded, as if no
undertaking had been given. The justilication shall be
upon anotice of not less than five days.

SE0. 252. In the cases not. provided for in sections 245,
246, 247, 248 and 249,. the perfecting of an appeal, by
giving the undertaking mentioned in section 244, shall
stay proceedings in the court below, upon the judgment
appealed from, except that where it directs the/sale of
perishable property, the court below may order the property _to be sold, and the proceeds thereof be deposited or
invested, to abide the judgment of the appelate court.

SEC. 253. The undertaking must be filed with the clerk
with evghom the judgment or order appealed from was
enter .

CHAPTER IIIAgweals to they Uirouit C’o'm-t or County 00mm, from.
' Jwst7Ioe’s Judgment.

Sucrxoy 254. Existing laws repealed, and this chapter substituted-."

355. By what ceurtejudgment to be reviewed

256. Appeal, when: taken. ‘

257. Notice of appeal to be served andoontlpaid

258. Security tostay execution. 259. Form of undertaking.

260. Eiecution, how stayed.

261. In case of death of justice, undertaking to be filed.‘
262. Filing in lieu of service of notice of appeal.

263. Return, when and how made and compelled.

264. How made ifjustice be out of oEoe.

265. Further return-may be ordered.

266. If justice be dead, insane or absent.

267. Hearing upon return, dismissing of appeal if‘ not’

brought in.
268. To be heard on original papers, and new trial in what
cases.

269. Judgment on appeal, and judgment roll.

270. Costa, how awarded.

271. Ordering restitution. '
572. Setting of costs on recovery.

27 3'. The costs. on appeal.

274. Costs in cases of new trial.

See. 25$. All statutes now in force, providing for the
review of judgments in civil cases, rendered by courts of
justice of the peace, whether by appeal or certiorari, are
hereby repealed, and hereafter the only mode of reviewing
suchjudgments shall be an appeal as prescribed by this
act.

Sec. 255. An appeal from the judgments of such courts,in the cases mentioned in the preceding section, may be
taken to the courts that are now authorized to review such
judgment, either by appeal or certiorari, in the manner
prescribed in this act and in no other manner.

Gm. 256. The appellant shall, within twenty days after

judgment, serve a notice of appeal, stating the grounds

gush which the appeal is founded. If the judgment is
deredupon process, not personally served, and the defendant did not a pear, he shall have twenty days after
personal notice o the judgment, to serve the notice of
apgeal, provided for in this and the next section. _

' no. 257. The notice of appeal must, within the same
time, be served on thejustice, personally, if living, and

within the county, or on his clerk, if there be one, and on,

tlwrespondent, personally, or by leaving it at his residence,
with some person of suitable age and discretion, or in case
thterespondeut is not a resident of the county, in the same
manner on the attorney or agent, if any, who is a resident
of such county, who ap cared for him on the trial; and
the appellant must, at t ‘s time of the service of the notice of ap eal, on the justice, pay to him the costs of the
action inc uded in the judgment, together with one dollar
costs of the return, which shall be restored to him in case
this judgment is reversed, and be included in the judgment for costs on reversal.

SEC. 258'. If the appellant desire a stay of execution of
the judgment, he shall give security, as provided in the
next section.

See. 269. The security shall be a written undertaking,
executed by one or more suiiicient sureties, approved by
the appellate judge, or by the court below, to the effect
that if judgment be rendered against the appellant, and
execution thereon be returned unsatisfied in whole or in
part, the sureties will pay the amount unsatisfied.

SEO. 260. The delivery of the undertaking to the court
below, shall stay the issuing of execution, or if it have
been issued, the service of a copy of the undertaking,
certilied by the court below, upon the officer holding the
execution, shall stay further proceedings thereon.

Sec. 261. When by reason of the death of a justice of

the peace, or his removal from the county or any other

cause, the undertaking on the appeal cannot be delivered
te him, it shall be filed with the clerk of the appellate
court and notice thereof given to the respondent, or his

_ attorney or agent as provided in section 257, it shall thereupon have the same eifect as if delivered to the justice.
81:0. 262. When by reason of the death of a justice of

the peace or his’ absence ‘from the county or any other

cause, the notice of appeal cannot be served as provided

by section 256, it may be ‘served by leaving the same
with the clerk of the circuit court.

Snzo. 263. The court below shall thereupon, after ten days,
and within thirty days after service of the notice of appeal,

make a return to the appellate court ot the testimony,’

proceedings and judgment, and file the same in the appelate court, and may be compelled to do so by attachment.
But no justice of the peace shall be bound to make a return unless the fee prescribed by this act be paid on service of the notice of appeal.

Sac. 264. When a justice of the peace by whom a judgment appealed from was rendered, shall have gone out of
office, before a return was ordered, he shall nevertheless
make a return, in the same manner, and‘ with the like
eifect, as if he were still in office.

SEC. 265. If the return be defective, the appellate court

may direct a further or amended return, as often as may
be necessary, and may compel a compliance with its or-_
der, by attachment.

SEC. 266. If a justice of the peace, whose judgment is
appealed from, shall die, become insane, or remove from
the state, the appellate court may examine witnesses on
oath to the facts and circumstances of the trial or judgment, and determine the appeal as if the facts had been
returned by the justice. If he shall have removed to

another county within the state, the appellate court may

compel him to make the return, as if he were still within
the county where the judgment was rendered.

SEO. 26?. If the return he made, the appeal may be
brought to a hearing, at a regular term of the appellate
court, upon a notice by either party of not less than eight
days. It shall be placed upon the calendar, and continue
thereon without further notice, until finally disposed of ;
but if neither party bring it to a hearing before the end
of the second term, the court shall dismiss the appeal unless it continue the same by special order for cause shown.

SE0. 268. The appeal shall be heard on the original papers, and return of the justice containing all the material
evidence and his rulings in the cause, in case where the
judgment, exclusive of costs, does not exceed fifteen dolars.

But when the judgment shall exceed that sum, (the
costs excluded,) and also where the jud ment is against
the complainant, or in his favor fora sum ess than h°fteen

dollars, exclusive of costs, if he shall make oath at the time

of appealing, that he has a valid claim against the defendant, as set forth in his complaint, exceeding the sum of
fifteen dollars, as he verily believes, the action shall be tried
inthe appellate court, as cases originally brought there;
but the parties may, by consent appearing on the return
of the justice, admit such return or any part thereof, as
evidence on the trial of the appeal.

Sun. 269. Upon the hearing of the appeal, the appelate.
court shall give judgment according to the justice of the
case, without regard to technical errors, or defects, whichdo not effect the merits. In giving judgment, the court
mayaflirm or reverse the judgment of the court below, in
whole or in part, as to any or all of the’ parties, and for
errors of law or fact. This section shall only apply to
cases where there is no new trial in the appellate court. To
every judgment upon an appeal,’there shall be annexed
the return upon w ich it was heard, which shall be filed
with the clerk of the court, and shall constitute the judgment roll. '

SEO. 270. If the judgment be affirmed, costs shall be
awarded to the respondent. If it.be reversed, costs shall
be awarded to the appellant. If it be affirmed in part,
the costs, or such part as to the court shazl seem just, may
be awarded to either party. This section shall apply to
cases where there is no new trial in the appellate court.

Site. 211. If the judgment below, or any part thereof,
be collected, and the judgment be afterwards reversed,
the appellate court shall order the amount collected to be
restored, with interest, from the time of collection. The
order may be obtained upon proof of the facts made at or
after the bearing, upon a previous notice of six days.

Site. 272. It‘ upon an appeal, a recovery be had by one
party, and costs be awarded to the other, the appellate
court shall set oil‘ the one against the other, and render
judgment for the balance.

SEO. 2.73. The followin tees and costs, and no other,

except fees of officers an disbursements, shall be allowed

upon appeals:

To the appellant, on reversal, five dollars.

To the respondent, on atiirmance, five dollars.

To a justice of the peace for his return, one dollar.

If the judgment appealed from be reversed in part, and
a$rmed as to the residue, the amount of costs allowed to
either party, shall be such sum as the appellate court may
award, not exceeding five dollars. It’ the appeal be dismissed for want of prosecntion,.no costs shall be. allmvsdbo
either party.

81:0. 824. The same costs, fees and disbursements, shall
be allowed to the successful party, in cases of.neIw~trial on
appeal in the appellate court, as on adirmanee or reversal
of a judgment. « A

TITLE 12.

Qf the llliscellcmeoue Proceedings in Civil Actions a/ad
General Provisions. ‘ .

OIAPTIB 1. Submitting a controversy without action.
2. Proceedings against joint debtors, heirs, devisees, legatees, and tenants holding under a judgment debtor.
3. Confession of judgment without action.
4. Ofers of the defendant to compromise the ‘whole or any
‘ part of the action.
5. Admission or inspection of writings.
6. Examination of parties. ~ *
7. Examination of witnesses.
8. Motions and orders.
9. Entitling aiiidavits. ;
10. Computation of time.
11. Notices, tiling and service of papers.
12. Duties of sheriff and coroners.
13. Accountability of guardians.
14. Powersof referees.
15. Miscellaneous provisions.

CHAPTER I.

Submitting a Controversy without Action.

Snort on 275. Controversy—how submitted without action.
276. Judgment on, as in other cases, but without costs.
277." Judgment maybe enforced or appealed from, as in
other cases. '

faith to determine the rights of the parties.

Sxtcrron 275. -Parties to a question in diillerenoe, which I
might be ‘the subject of a civil action, may, without pea;
tion, agree upon a case containing the facts upon’ which,
the controversy depends, and present a submission of the
'same'to any court which ‘would have jurisdiction if an
action had been brought. But it must appear by affidavit,
that the controversy 1s real, and the proceeding; in good

he court
shall thereupon hear and determine the case at a general term, and render judgment thereon as if an action were
pending.

SEC. 276. Judgment shall be entered in the judgmeut«
book as in other cases, but without costs for- any proceed-j
ing prior to the notice of trial. The case, the submission,anld a copy of the judgment, shall constitute the judgment
ro .

SEO. 277. The judgment may be enforced in the same«
manner as if it had been rendered in an action, and shall 3
be subject to appeal in likemanner. ’

CHAPTER II.

Proceedings agaimst joint debtors, herbs, demlsees, Zegatass,
and tenants Izolrhhzg wzder a judgment debtor. ’

Slcrxox 278. Parties not summoned in action on joint contract, may
be summoned after judgment.
279. If judgment debtor die, his representatives may be
summoned.
280. Form of summons.
2 281. To be‘-accompanied by aiiidavit of amount due.
282. Parties summoned may answer and defend.
283. Subsequent pleadings and proceedings same as in other
actions.
284. Answer and reply to be verified as in an action.

SEC. 278. When a judgment shall be recovered against
one or more of several persons jointly indebted upon a
contract by proceeding as provided in section 41, those
who were not originally summoned to answer the complaint, may be summoned to. show cause why they should
not be bound by the judgment in the same manner as if
they had been originally summoned.

Site. 279. In case of thedeath of a judgment debtor
after judgment, the heirs, devisees, or legatees of the
'ud ment debtor, or the tenants of real property owned

y im, and affected by the judgment, may after the expiration of three years from the time of granting letters
testementary, or of administration upon the estate of the
testator or intestate, be summoned to show cause why the
judgment should not be enforced against the estate of the
judgment debtor in their hands respectively, and the personal representatives of a deceased judgment debtor, may
be so summoned at any time within one year after their
appointment.

81:0. 280. The summons provided in the last two sections
shall be subscribed by the judgment creditor, his representatives or attorney, shall describe the judgment, and
require the person summoned to show cause within twenty
days after the service of the summons and shall be served in like manner as the original summons.

Sac. 281. The summons shall be accompanied by an
aiiidavit of the person subscribing it, that the judgment
has not been satisfied to his knowledge or information
and belief, and shall specify the amount due thereon.

SEC. 282., Upon such summons, the party summoned
may answer within the time specified therein denyin the
judgment, or setting up any defence which may ave
arisen subsequently, and in addition thereto if he be proceeded against, according to section 279, he may make
the same defence which he might originally have made to
the action. except the statutes of limitation.

SEC. 283. The party issuing the summons, may demur
or reply to the answer, and the party summoned may demur to the reply, and the issues may be tried and j u<Jgment may be given in the same manner as in an action,
and enforced by execution, or the application of the property charged to the payment of the judgment, may be
compelled by attachment it’ necessary.

Site. 284. The answer and reply shall be verified in the
like cases and manner and be subject to the same rules
as the answer and reply in an action.

orurfrnn III.

I

. Uonfeeeion of Judgmen,t,w1it}l.outAotion.

' Sxcmox 285. Judgment may he confessed for debt due or contingent
liabilities’.
286. Statement in writing and form thereof.
289. J udgmont and execution.

SECTION 285. A judgment by confession may be entered withoutaction, either for moneydue or to become due,
‘or to secure’ any person against contingent liability onshohalf of the defendant, or both, in the manner prescribed
by this chapter.

SEC. 286. A statement in writing must be made, si ed
by the defendant, and verified by his oath, to the fo owing eifect:

« 1. It must state the amount for which judgment may
the entered, and authorize the entry of judgment thereor.

2. If it be for money due, or to become due,,it must

‘state concisely the facts out of which it arose, and must
show that the sum confessed therefor is justly due,‘ or to
,beco _e due.

. 3. f it be for the purpose of securing the plaintiff

against a contingent liability, it must state concisely the
facts constituting the liability, and must show that the
sum confessed therefor does not exceed the same.

SE0. 287. The statement may be iiled with the clerk of A
the circuit court, who shall endorse upon it, and enter in ”

the judgment book a judgment of the circuit court for
the amount confessed, with ten dollars costs, together
with disbursements.

The statement’ and affidavit, with the judgment ondorsed, shall thereupon become the judgment roll. Executions may be issued and enforced thereon, in the same
manner as u on judgments in other cases in such courts.
When the n bt for which the judgment is recovered is
-not all due, or is payable in installments, ‘ and the installmentsare not all due, the execution may issue upon such
judgment for the collection of such installments as have
become due, and shall be in the usual form, but shall have
endorsed thereon, by the attorney, or person issuing the
same, a direction to the sheriff to‘ collect the amount due

on such judgment, with interest and cos ts, which amount
shall be stated with interest thereon, and the costs of said
judgment. Notwithstanding the issue and collection of
such execution, the judgment shall remain as security for
the installments thereafter to become due; and whenever
any further installment become due, execution may in
like manner he issued for the collection and enforcement
of the same.

CHAPTER IV.

Qfers of the _Defendant to Oomgiromise the whole or
V part of the Action.

Sncmon 288. Defendant may 03st to liquidate damages conditionally.
' 289. Elfect of acceptance or refusal of oifer.

SEC. 288. In an action arising on contract, the defendant may with his answer serve u on the plaintiif, an offer
in writing, that if he fail in his efence, the damages be
assessed at a specified sum, and if the laintiff signrfyhis
acceptance thereof in writing, with or efore the notice of
trial, and on the trial have a verdict, the damages shall be
assessed accordingly. '

SEC. 289. If the plaintiff do not acce t the oifer, he
shall prove his damages, as if it had not een made, and
shall not be permitted to give it in evidence, and if the
damages assessed in his favor shall not exceed the sum
mentioned in the offer, the defendant shall recover his
‘expenses incurred in consequence of any necessary preparation or defence in respect to the question of damages,
such expenses shall be ascertained at the trial.

ouarmn v.
Admission or Inspection of Weitvhtgs.

, Sr.-crron 290. A party may be required to admit a paper to be genuine or pay expenses of proving it. Inspection and
copy of books, papers and documents, how obtained.

SEC. 290. Either party may exhibit to the other or his
attorney at any time before the trial, any paper material
to the action, and request an admission in writing of Its

genuineness. If the adverse party or his attorney fail to
give the admission Within four days after the request, and
if the party exhibiting the paper be afterwards put to the
expense in order to prove its genuineness, and the same
be fully proved or admitted on the trial, such expense to
be ascertained at the trial, shall be paid by the party refusing the admission, unless it appears to the satisfaction
of the court that there were good reasons for the refusal;
but nothing in this act shall be construed to modify or
repeal sections 90, 91 and 92, of chapter 98 of the revised
statutes. The court before which an action is pending or
a judge thereof may in their discretion, and upon due
notice, order either party to give to the other, within a
specihed time, an inspection and copy or permission to
take a copy of any books, papers and documents in his
possession or under his control containing evidence relating
to the merits of the action or the defence therein. If cornpliance with the order be refused, the court on motion may
exclude the paper from being given in evidence or punish
the party refusing, or both.

CHAPTER VI .

Eivami/nation of Parties.

Sncnox 291. Actions for discovery abolished.

292. A party may examine his adversary as a witness on
the trial.

293. Such examination also allowed before trial and proceedings therefor.

294. Party, how compelled to attend.

295. Testimony of party may be rebutted.

296. Effect of refusal to testify.

297. Testimony of a party not responsive to the inquiries,
may be rebutted by the oath of the party caning
him. ,

298. Persons for whom action is brought or defended may

‘be examined.
299. Examination of a co-plainliif or co-defendant.

' SEC. 291. N 0 action to obtain discovery under oath, in
aid of the prosecution or defence of another action, shall
be allowed, nor shall any examination of a party be had

on’ behalf of the adverse party, except in the manner
prescribed by this chapter. ,
SE0. 292. A party to an action may be examined! as a

_,witness at the instance of the adverse party, or of a ‘any
one ofseveral adverse parties; and for that purpose, may

be com elled in the same manner, and subject to the
same ru es of examination as any other witness, to testify
either at the trial, or conditionally, or upon commission.

"SE0. 293. The examination, instead of bein had at the
trial, as provided in the last section, may be ad at any
time before the trial,‘ at the option of the party claiming
it, before a judge of the court, a county judge, on a previous notice to the party to be examined, and any other
adverse party, of at least five days, unless for good cause
shown, the judge order otherwise. But" the pa'r'ty't‘o be
examined shall not be compelled to’ attend in any other
county than that of his residence, or where he may be
served with a summons for his attendance.

SE0. 294. The party to be examined, as in the last’ ‘section provided, may be compelled to attend in the same
manner as a witness to be examined conditionally; and
the examination shall be taken and filed by the judge in
likpl manner, and may be read by either party on the
tri .

SEO. 295. The examination‘ of - the party thus taken, may
be rebutted b adverse testimony.

SEC. 296. I a party refuses to attend and‘ testify as in
the last four sections provided, he may be punished as
for a contempt, and his complaint,-answer or reply, may
beistri‘cli"en*out.

SEC‘ 297. A party examined by an adverse party, as in
this chapter provided, may be examined on his own
behalf in respect to any matter pertinent to the issue;
but if he testify to any new matter not responsive to the
questions put to him by theadverse party or necessary to
explain or qualif his answers thereto, or discharge, when
his answers wou d charge himself, such adverse party may
offer himself as a witness on his own behalf in respect to
such new matter, and shall be so received.

SEC. 298. A person for whose immediate benefit the
action is prosecuted or defended, though not a party to
the action, may be examined as a witness in the same
manner‘ and subject to the same rules of examination as if
he were named as aparty. 9

Site. 299. A party may_ be examined on behalf of his
co-plaintiif, or of a codefendant, as to any matter in
which be is not jointly interested, or liable with such coplaintiif or co-defendant, and as to which a se arate, and
not joint verdict or judgment can be rendere . And he
may be compelled to attend in the same manner as at the
instance of an adverse (party; but the examination thus
taken shall not be use in the behalf of the party examined. And ‘whenever in the cases mentioned in sections two hundred and ninety-three, and two hundred and
ninety-four, one of the several plaintiffs, or .de‘ilsndants,
who are joint contractors, or are united -in interest, is
examined by the adverse party, the ._other of such plaintiffs -or edefendants may offer himself a8_.a..w,itnoss to the
samedcause of action or defence, and shall be so receive .

 VII.‘
Ema/nviznation of Witnesses.
Sncnox 300. N o witness to be excluded on account of interest;._

301. To whom last section inapplicable, -examination .ofl

auignor and adverse party, when necessity to give
notieesof the examination of assignor. ,

Sno. 300. No person offered as a witness shall be excluded byreason of his interest in the event of the action. l
Smo. 301. The last section shall not apply to a party to?

the action, nor to any person for whose immediate benefit

it is prosecuted or defended. When an assignonof a thing
in action, or contract, is examined as a witness on behalf.»
of any person deriving title through or from him, the ad»
verse party may oifer himself as a witness to the same;

matter in his own behalf, and shall be so received. But
such assignor shall not be admitted to be. examined . in
bdialf of any person deriving title through or from him
against an assignee, or an executor, or a ministrator, unless the other party to such contract, or thing in action,
whom the defendant, or plaintiff represents, is living, and
his ,-testimony can be procured for such examination, nor
unless. ten days’ notice of such intended examination of
the assignor, specifying the points upon which he is in».
tendedto be examined, shall be given in writing tothe
adverse party-t     ~

CHAPTER VIII.

Motions and Orders.

Sharron‘ 302. Definition of an order.
303. Deiinitionof a motion, motion how and when made.

304. When notice is necessary it must be eight days before
, the hearing.

305. In action in circuit court, county j udge and county
commissioner may act at chambers. Their orders,
how reviewed. '

I 306. Special circuit, number of, how designated, and busin‘ ess done thereat.
307. In absence of j udge at chambers motion may be transferred to another judge.
308. Enlarging time for proceedings in action.

Site. 302. Every direction of a ‘court. or judge made or
entered in writing, and not included in a judgment is
denominated an order. '

S190. 303. An application for an order is a motion.
Motions may be made to a judge out of court, except for
a new trial on the merits. Motions must be made within
the circuit in which the action is triable. Orders made
out of court, without notice, may be made by any judge

of the court, in any part of the state, and they _may also

be made by a . county judge or court commissioner, of
the county where the action is triable, except to stay proceedings after a verdict. No order to stay proceedings
for a longer time than twenty days shall be granted by a
judge out of court, except upon previous notice to the
adverse party. '

SEO. 304. When a notice of motion is necessary, it
must be served eight days before the time appointed
for the hearing, but the court or judge may, by an order
to show cause, prescribe a shorter time.

SEO. 305. In the action in the circuit court a. county
judge and court commissioner, in addition to the powers
conferred upon them in this act, may exercise within
their county the powers of a circuit judge in chambers,
according to the existing practice, except as otherwise
provided in this act, and their orders may be received by
the circuit court as provided in this act. But such court

' commissioners as are mentioned in this act, shall be appointed by the circuit corurt for the express purpose of
performing the duties authorized b this act.

SEC. 306. There shall. be held ’ y each of the circuit
judges in each circuit, at least four special terms, in each
year, for the trial of issues of law,-—for the hearing ' and
trial of causes without a jury, for the hearing of motions
and the transacting of any and all business that may be
done at a regular term, except the trial of issues of fact 1)
a jury, at such time and places as the circuit judge shal
designate; the said judges shall each, immediately, desi nate and ublish the times and places of holding sa (1
terms, an when desi nated, they shall not be changed
within two years, am? at such terms, the issues of law
and motions, and all other business that may be heard
and disposed of with the same force and effect as it may
now be heard and disposed of in the county in which
the causes or matters are pending, and when the causes
or matters are pending in other counties in the circuit different from the county in which the special term is held,
the clerk of the court shall certify the orders and papers
to the clerk of the circuit court of the county where the
same is ending, and the papers shall be filed and entered
by the c er]: of the court of the county where the cause
or‘ matter is pending, in the same manner as if the cause
or matter had been heard or decided by the circuit court
at a term thereof held in that county.

. SEO. 307. When notice of a motion is given, or an
order to show cause is returnable before a judge out of
court, and at the time fixed for the “motion he is absent, or
unable to hear it, the same may be transferred by his
order to some other judge before whom the motion might
ori 'nally have been made.

no. 398. The time within which any proceeding in an
action must be had after ‘its commencement, except the
time within which an appeal must be taken, my be enlar ed upon an afildavit showing grounds therefor, by a
ju‘ e of -the court, or court commissioner, or by ‘a count
Judge. The atiidavit, or a copy thereof, must be serve
with a copy of the order, or the order may be disregarded.

‘MAKER Izx.
_s'na°m;ng,A
Slorrorz 309. It shall not be necessary to entitle amdavits. ,

Snonou 309. It shall not be necessary to entitle an athdavit in the action; but an afiidavit made without a title;
or with a defective title, shall be as valid and effectual for

every purpose as if it were duly entitled, if it intelligibly '

refer to the action or proceeding in which it is made. _

OBAPTERX.

Uomputattionc of Time.
Sncrrox 310. Time, how computed.

Snenon 310. The time within which an act is to bedone
as herein provided, shall be computed b excluding the
first day, and including the last. If the ast day be Sunday, it shall be excluded. ‘

OELPTEIB. X1Notiaes and Felling and Service of Papers.

. SECTION 311. Notice and papers how served on party or attorney.

' 312. Service persopqal or by copy in oiiice or house.
313'. Service by mail, when and how.
314. Postage to be paid.
315. Double time whenservice by mail.
316. Notice of m6ti0ns~&c.,— to be eight-days.
317. When papers nsedmot be served on defendant.

318. Ssrvicsof papers where‘ party resides’ ontef thestete, '

319. Summons and pleadings to be filed.
320. When this chapter does not apply.

Snanon 311. Notices shall be in writing, and notices
and other papers may be served on the party, or attorney,
in the manner prescrjbed in the next three sections where
not otherwise provided by this act.

 312. The service may be personal, or by -delivery
to the party-or attorney on whomzthe service is required
to be made, or it may be as follows:

1. If upon an attorney, it may be-madedurin «his absence from his ofiice, by leaving the paper with clerk.
therein, .or‘wit.h- a person having, charge-thereof ; or: when
there is no person in the office, by .leaving -it, between the
hours of six in the morning and nine in the evening, in a
conspicuous place in the ofiice, or if it be not open, so as
to admit of such service, then by leaving it at the attorney’s residence with some person of suitable age and discretion.

2. If upon a arty, it may be made by leaving the
paper at his reei ence between the hours of six in the
morning and nine in the evening, with some person of
sui -age and discretion. a

Sea. 313. Service by mail m be made, where the
person making the service, and e person on whom it is
to be -made reside in different places between which
there is a regular communication by mail. ' l

Sun. 814. 11 case of service by mail, the paper must-be
deposited in the post oflice, addressed to the person‘ one
whom it*is.to be served, at his place of residence, and the
postage pald. _ o . . , '

Sec. 315. When the servrceis by mail,-1t shall bedouble
the time re uired in case of personal service. - ‘

Sno. 316. otice of a motion or other proceeding before
a court or jud e when personally served, shall be’ given
at least ei ht ays before the time a pointed therefor.

Sno. 31 . Where a defendant sh lnot have demurredl
or answered service of notice or papers in the ordinary

roceedings in an action need not be made upon him uness he be imprisoned for want of bail ; but shall be
made upon him or his attorney, it“notice of appearance
in the action has been given.

‘Site. 318. ‘Where a plainti&' or a defendant who ‘has:
demurred or answered, or ives notice of appearance, re-3
sides out of the state and as no attorney in the action, 3
the service may be made by mail, if his residence be:
known, if not known, on the clerk for the part .

SEC. _'319. The summons and the several pleadin in 1
an action, shall be filed with the clerk within ten giaaysl
after the service thereof‘, respectively, or the adverse party,
on proof of the omission, shall be entitled, without notice

to an order from a judge, that the same be tiled, within a
time specified in the order, or be deemed abandoned.

SEC. 320. Where a party shall have an attorney in the
action, the service of papers shall be made upon the attorney instead of the party.

SRO. 321. The provisions of this chapter shall not ap-I
ply to the service of a summons or other process or of
any paper, to bring a party into contempt.

.   I onarrnn xn.
Duties of  , a/nd_ Ooroners.

SIOTION 322. Duty of sheriff or coroner in serving or executing
process and how enforced.’ ‘

S110. 322. Whenever, pursuant to this act, the sheri&'
may be required to serve or execute any summons, order,
or judgment, or to do any other act,he shall be bound to
do so in like manner as upon process issued to him, and
shall be equally liable in all respects, for neglect of duty,
and if the sheriff be a party, the coroner shall be bound
to perform the service, as he is now bound to execute
process, when the sheriif is a ' party, and all the provisions of this act relating to sheri1f’s shall apply to coronera, where the sheriff is a party.

CHAPTER XIII.
Acaouatabc'l23z‘x_2/ qf Gua/rdiqm. I

SECTION 323. Guardians not to receive property without security
given. °

Sec. 323. N0 guardian appointed for an infant shall be
permitted to receive property of the infant, until he shall
have given suiiicient security, approved by a judge of the
court, or a county judge, or court commmissioner, to account for and apply the same under the direction of the
court.

ouarrnn  2
Powers ‘of Referees.

Sncrrorz 324. Referees are authorized to administer oaths and to
~ exercise powers now vested in referees by law.

324. Every referree appointed pursuant to this act,
shall have power t.o administer oaths in any proceeding
before him, and shall have generally the powers new
vested in a referee by law.

CHAPTER xv.
Zl[*i.9c«2ZZ(z,»m:<0s-24.5‘ P9"0m'ss2i0:ns.

SECTION 5325. Papers lost or withheld, how supplied.
‘ 326. Where undertakings are to be filed.

327. On appeal judgment may be entered up against
appellant and suretyjointly, and when collected
of surety.

328. In actions for the claim and delivery of personal property, judgment to be entered against principal
and surety, and when collected of surety.

329. Judgment on bond and warrant of attorney. A$davit of plaintiff necessary.

330. Time for publication of notices, how computed.

SEC. 325. If any ori inal pleading or paper be lost or withheld b any person, e court-may aut orize a copy thereof
to be led and used instead of the original.

SEO. 326. The various undertakings required to be given
by this act must be filed with the clerk of the court, unless
the court expressly provides for a diiferent disposition
thereof, except that the undertakings provided for by the
chapter on the claim and delivery of personal property
aha ,‘after the justification of the sureties, be delivered b
the sheriif, to the parties respectively, for whose bene t
they are taken.

BIO. 827. On an appeal from a justice of the peace, if the
appellate court shall give judgment against the party ap°
pealing, such judgment may be entered up against the

have slgned a written under

a pellant and surety jointly, but it shall not be collected
0 the surety by the oiiicer to whom the execution is directed, if he can iind suiiicient property of the principal
to satisfy the same, and the party issuing execution, shall
endorse a direction thereon to that effect.

Sun. 328. When a judgment shall be entered up against
either arty, in an action for the claim and delivery of
persona property, such judgment may be entered u as
well against the principal as gainst any surety, who s all

t

ing with him, for a return.

or dehvery of the property, as prescribed in this act, and.
in case where the ofiicer to whom_the execution is direct-,

ed, may collect the value of the property, or any damages
or- costs of the principal, he shall, if he cannot find sailicient property of the principal to. satisfy the same, collect
the whole or any part of the judgment, which may remain unsatished, of the property of such surety or sureties, and the party issuing execution shall endorse a direction thereon to that effect.

Smo. 329. Judgment upon bond or note and warrant of

attorney may be entered up as now provided by law,
and this I act, so far- as the entering of such judgment
shall not ap ly thereto, but the plaintiff,‘ or some one in
his behalf, s all make and file Wlth the judgment record
an aliidavit, stating the amount actually due on the bond
or -note, at the timeof entering such judgment.

SEC. 330. The time for publication of legal notices shall be
computedtso as toexclude the first day,of publication, and
include the day on which the. act or event, of which notice is given, is to hag en, or which completes the full
period required for pu 'cation.

TITLE 13.
Actions in particular Uaees.

Curran 1. Action in placeof scirefacias, qua Ivan-auto, and of information in the nature of qua warranto.

2. Action for the partition of real property. . .

3. Antion to detcmino conuioting claims to r0al.pnpIl|J,
andooncuming real-property. ’

CHAPTER I.

Aaamaapzmo .somFaa:aa, Qua Wammato, and of
 in. that nature qf Qua Wa/rrcmto.

'8II'l'I0l' 331. Sam facias and prescribedin-this
act.
332. Actions of qua warranto and mandamus, where tried.
333. Action may be broughtby attorney general to vacate
a charter by direction of legislature. '
334. Actions annulling corporation by attorney general,.
by leave of supreme court.
335. Leave, how obtained.
,336. An» action by attorney general, or other persons, totry the title to an oiee. ._
337. Action when and how -brought, to vacate letters
patent.

338. Relator, when to be joined as plaintiff.

339. Complaint and arrest of defendant in action for
usurping an ollice.

340. 4 Judgment in such cases.

341. Assumption of oiliee, &o., by relater, when judgment
in his favor.

342. Proceedings-‘ against defendant on refusal to deliver '

. books andpapers.
343. Damages, how recovered.

344. When actions against several persons claiming omce
or franchise.

345. Penalty for usurping oiiice or franchise, how awarded.

346. Judgment of forfeiture against corporation.

347. Costs against corporation, or persons claiming to be
such, how collected.

348. Restraining corporation, and appointment of a re‘ ‘ ceiver.

349. Copy of judgment roll against corporation, when to
be filed.

350. Actions for forfeiture of property to the people.

Sno. 331. The writ of see’/re facias, the writ of gvuo
warranto, and proceedings by information in the nature
of qua warrarnto, shall be as here prescribed, and the remedies heretofore obtainable in those forms, may be obtained
by civil ‘action, under the provisions of this chapter. But
any proceeding heretofore commenced, or judgment rendered, or right acquired, shall not be affected by this act.
It .shall not be necessary to sue out. such writs, in form.’

Sec. 332. . Actions of guo warranto and mandamus
shall be tried at special as well as at general terms of the
circuit court, and the court shall have power to summon
a jury for the purpose and prescribe the manner of summoning the same. _

Srco. 333. An action may be brou ht by the attorney
general, in the name of the state, w enever the legislature shall direct, against a corporation, for the purpose of
vacating or annulling the act of incorporation, or an act
renewing its corporate existence, on the ground that such
act or renewal was procured upon some fraudulent suggestion or concealment of a material fact, by the persons
incorporated, or by some of them, or with their knowledge
and consent.

SE0. 334. An action may be brought by the attorney
general in the name of the state, on leave granted by the
supreme court, or a judge thereof for the purpose of vacating the charter, or annullin the existence of a corporation other than municipal wgen such corporation shall:

1. Offend against any of the provisions of ~ the act or

‘acts, creating, altering or renewing such corporation.

2. Violate the provisions of any law, by which such
corporation shall have forfeited its charter by abuse of its
powers, or

3. Whenever it shall have forfeited its privileges or
franchises by failure to exercise its powers, or

4. Whenever it shall have done, or omitted any act
which amounts to a surrender of its corporate rights,
privileges or franchise, or _

5. Whenever it shall exercise a franchise or privilege
not conferred upon it by law. And it shall be the duty of
the attorney general whenever he shall have reason to
believe that any of these acts or emissions can be established by proof to apply for leave, and upon leave granted
to bring the action in every case of public interest, and
also in every other case in which satisfactory security shall

-be given toindemnify the people of this state against the1 costs and expensesto be incurred thereby.

See. 335. Leave to bringthe action may. be granted upon :

the application of the attorney general, and the court »or<

Judge may in its discretion, direct notice of such application to be given to the corporation or its ofiicers previous
to granting such leave, and_ may hear the corporation in
OP O8it3(:)3Il3 tllzhehoctioln may  bro ht by the attorney
E04 ‘ 0 6  : ‘

general in the name of the state upon his own information,
or u on the complaint of any private party against the
parties offending in the following cases :~ ’

1. .When any person shall.usurp, intrude into, or unlawfully hold or exercise, any_ public office, civil or military,
or any.francl(111s1p wtilthin tins state; opn any oiiice 1n a_ corporation create y e aut ority_o t ‘s state or

2. When any ‘public ofiicer, civil or military, shall have
done or suffers an act which, by the .provisions of law,

shall make a forfeiture of his office; or

3. When any association, or number of person s, shall
act within this state as a corporation without bein gt duly
incor orated, - &, uch action may be brought in the name of the people of this state, by a private erson on his own complaint, when the attorney genera refuses to act, or when
the ofiice usurped pertains to a county, town, city or district. ‘ ' l .
See. 337. An action may be brought by the attorney
general in the name of the state, for the purpose of vacating or annulling letters patent granted by the people
of this state, in the following cases: « ,

1. When he shall have reason to believe that such letters patent were obtained by means of some fraudulent
suggestion, or concealment of a material fact, made by 9.
person to whom the same were issued, or made with his
consent or knowled e. °

2-. When he shagl have good reason to believe that
such letters patent were issued through mistake, or in ignorance of a material fact; or A

3. When he shall have reason to believe that the
patentee, or those claiming under him, have done or
omitted an act in violation of the terms and conditions on
which the letters patent were granted, or have by any
other means forfeited the interest acquired under the
same.

Sm. 338. When an action shall be brought by the at'torney general b virtue of this chapter, on ‘the relation
on information o a person having an interest in the question, the name of such person shall be joined with the
state: as plaintiff. ’
I Site. 889. Whenever such action shall be brought
‘against a person for usurping an oiilce, the attorney general or person complaining, in addition to the‘ statement
of the cause of action, may also set forth in the complaint
the name of the person rightfully entitled to the oflice,
with a statement of his right thereto, and in such case,
upon proof by aiiidavit, that the defendant hasareceived
fees-for emoluments belonging to the oilice, and by means
of his usurpation thereof, an order may be granted by a
jud e of t e circuit court, for the arrest of such defen ant, and holding him -‘to bail, and thereupon he shall
‘be arrested and held to bail, in the manner, and with the
same effect, and subject to the same rights and liabilities
as in other civil actions, -when the defendant is subject to
arrest.

SE0. 34.0. In every such case judgment shall be rendered upon the right of the defendant, and also upon, the
right of the party so alleged'to be entitled, or only upon
the right of the defendant, as justice shall require.

SEC. 341. If the judgment be rendered upon the rights of
the person so alleged to be entitled, and the same be in
favor of such person, he shall be entitled, after taking the
oath of office and executing such oflicial bond as may be
required by law, to take upon himself the execution of
the oflice, and it shall be his duty immediatel thereafter,
to demand of the defendant in the action, a l the books
and papers, in his custody, or within his power, belonging
to the office from which he shall have been excluded.

Sun. 342. If the defendant shall refuse or neglect to
deliver over such books or pa ers pursuant to the demand,
he shall be guilty of a mis emeanor, and the same proceedings shall be had, and with the same effect, to ‘compelldehvery of such books and papers, as are provided

aw.

ySEO; 343. If judgment be rendered upon the ri ht of
the person so alleged to be entitled, in favor of suc person, he may recover, by action, the damages which he
should have sustained by reason of the usurpation by the
defendant of the office from which such defendant has
been excluded.

81:0. 344. When several persons claim to be entitled to
the same oiiice, or franchise, one action may be brought

against all such persons, in order to try their respective
rights to such oihce OI‘ franchise. 1 ._-.-. b  

Sno. 345- When a defendant, whether a natural‘ erson
or a corporation, a ainst whom’ such action, ,sl_1a:1,,h_a,ve
been brought, shall e adjudged uilty of usurping or 111truding into, or unlawfully hol 'ing' or exercising any
oiiice, franchise or privilege, judgment shall ‘be rendered
that such defendant be excluded from such oifice, franchise or privilege, and also that the plaintiff recover
costs against such defendant. The court may also, in
its discretion, fine such defendant a sum not exceeding
two thousand dollars, which fine, when collected, shall be
paid into the treasury of the state.

SEC. 346. If it shall be adjudged that a cor oration
against which an action shall have been broug t pursuant to this chapter, has‘, by neglect, abuse or surrender,
forfeited its corporate rights,. rivileges and_ franchise
judgment shall be "‘render‘e_d, ‘t ‘at‘the‘*‘corporrlti‘on"sB8‘*9 4cluded from '§nch:“corpd‘rate ‘rights, ‘privileges and franchises, and that the corporation be dissolved.  O

 SEO. 347. It’ judgment be ‘recovered in such“"actio‘n
against a corporation, or against personsclaiming to be a
corporation, the court may cause‘ the costs‘ therein to be
collected; by-' execution againstthe persons claiming to be :
a corporation, pr by attachmentor process against__the{ ‘

i‘ 7

rectors, or other oiiicers of f such corp{:rati’on. .

   §48’.” When  such  udg‘m‘e‘n ",'shall" ’ be 
tgexestfa °<?rI;l9!:ati9n».the ¢°u.rt.8hh11.‘ ate. theses? I>§Wé.3‘1
to. restrain it‘ e’ ‘cor'po‘rati'on, _'to‘ appoint_a‘,‘receiv’er1of' its",

pro erty, and to take an" account ’and'7‘in‘ cf" i’s‘t9i‘ib’ii‘-‘i

ti‘ ‘theréofjanicngits’ci*§d‘i¥ors;hs7  t i§afg",3g)r.‘7‘“'f'. .
 _.',§§9._"Up_onthe3rendit_i‘on‘oi:siic}1’ l‘ ' p ‘t agiiiiikti
a édl?p‘c'>'ratie‘n‘,’ ’oi* eforvacatin‘ ;_,o‘r ai1'n‘u‘ll "off etters a‘-"'

tent, it shall be tlie“duty of"t e” attoiiieyjg fieiiil to ca st“:
a copy of the judgment roll to be forthwith filed in the t
office of the secretary of state.

SEC. 350. Whenever by the provisions of law, any pro-A
perty, real or personal, shall be forfeited to the people of ‘
this state, or to any oflicer for their use, an action for the F

recovery of such property, alleging the grounds of the P

forfeiture, may» be brought by the proper oiiicer in the
circuit court.

onsrrnn 11.
Action for the Partition of Real Property/.

31011014’ 351. Provisions of revised statutes. Application to actions of partitions.

SEO. 351. The provisions of the revised statutes relating to the partition of lands, tenements and hereditaments,
held or possessed by joint tenants in common, shall apply
to actions for such partition, brought under this act, so
far as the same can be applied to the substance and subject matter of the action without regard to its forms.

CHAPTER III.

Actions to determine conflictcin clai/ms to Real Prqoerty
and concerning cal Property.

8101101: 352. Actions to determine claims to real property, how
prosecuted.
353. Provisions of revised statutes applicable to actions
concerning real property brought under this act.

81:0. 352. Proceedings to compel the determination of
claims to real propert pursuantto the provisions of the
revised statutes may e prosecuted by action under this
act without regard to the forms of the proceedings as they
are prescribed by those statutes.

81:0. 353. The general provisions of the revised statutes
relating to actions concerning real pro erty, shall apply
to actions brought under this act accor ing to the subject
matter of the action and without regard to its forms.

TITLE 14.

Provisions relating to existing Suits.

Snonon 354. Manner of reviewing judgment in existing cases.
355. Execution on judgments heretofore rendered.
356. Provisions of this act applicable ‘to proceedings in ac-‘
I tions.

SEC. 354. Wherever aright now exists to have a review
of a judgment rendered, or order or decree made before
the tenth day of December, eighteen hundred and £ftysix, such review may behad upon an appeal taken in the
manner provided by this ‘act. But this section shall not
extend the right of review to any case or question to which
it does not now extend, nor the time of appealing, nor
shall it apply to a case where a writ of error has been
already issued.
SEO. 355. An execution may be issued without leave of
the court upon a judgment docketed before the tenth day

’ of December, eighteen hundred and iifty-six, or now or

hereafter to be rendered in any action pending on that
day, at any time within two years after the rendering of
the judgment.

SEO. 356. The provisions of this act apply to future
proceedings in actions or suite heretofore commenced and
now pending as follows :

1. If there have been no pleading therein, to the pleadings and all subsequent proceedings.

2. When there is an issue of law or of fact or any
other issue of fact to be tried, to the trial and subsequent
proceedings. r r ».

3. After a judgment or order to the proceedings to en-.
in-ce, vacate, modify or reverse it, including the costs of

an appeal.

TITLE 15.
Dcgfimlt/ion of Real Property,’ cfeo.

Sncrrou 357. Definition of real property.

358. Dehnition of personal property.

359. Dehnition of property.

360. Dehnition of a circuit.

361. Common law, rule of construction of statute inapplicable to this act. .

362. Statutory provisions inconsistent with -this act, repealed. ‘*

363. Rules and practices inconsistent with this act altogated. '

364. Judges of the supreme court to make general rules,
' ' and until then, the rules of courts of New York to
be the rules of practice. 3
365. This act not to affect certain proceedings and statutory provisions. .
366. Certain parts of revised and other statutes repealed.
367. How this act to-be printed‘.

368. Governor to appoint person to superintend printing,
doc.

SEC. 357. The words “real property,”~ as used in this
act, are coextensive, with lands, tenements andhereditan

meats.

Sm. 358. The words “ personal property,” as used in this
act, include» money, goods, chattels, things in action, and
evidences of debt. - ' a

81:0. 359. The word “property,” as used in this act, includes property real and personal. 3 ‘ '

' SEC. 360. The word “circuit,” as used in this act, signiiies
judicial circuit, except when otherwise specified.

SEO. 361. The rule of common law, that statutes in derogation of that law are to be strictly construed, has no
application to this act.

SEC. 362.. All statutory provisions inconsistent ‘with
this act are repealed; but this repeal shall not revlve 8

itatute or law which may have -been repealed or abolished:
by the provisions hereby repealed. All therights of ac-j
taion given or secured by existing laws, may be prosecuted ‘
in the manner provided by this act. If a case shall arise
in which an action for the enforcement or protection-of a
right, or the redress or prevention of a‘wrong, cannot be
had under this act, the court where such action--‘arises,
shall provide a remedy which shall conform as near as
ma be to this act. ~

- no. 363. The present rules and practice of ' the courts:

in civil actions inconsistent with this act are’ ‘abrogated ;1

but where consistent with this act, they shallcontinuei
in force, subject to the power of the respective courts to:
relax, or modify, or alter the same.

"Sn:o.i364. The judges of the supreme‘ court shall meet.‘
in the capitol, at the city of Madison, on the second Wed-1
nesday in December eighteen hundred and iifty-six‘, ‘and:
revise their general rules, and the rules of the circuitt
courts, and make such amendments thereto as may be!
necessary to carry into effect the code of proceedings;j
and till such revision, the rules of the court of appeals]
and supreme court of New York, ‘adopted since eighteen
hundred and forty- eight, shall, as fareas applicable, be the
rules of practice in the courts of record in this state.

SEC. 365. Until the legislatnirerslrall otherwise iprovide, !
this act shall not affect proceedings upon mandamus, or!
prohibition nor appeals from probate courts, nor any spe }
cial statutory remedy not heretofore obtained by action”
nor any existing statutory provisions, relating to actions,
not inconsistent with this act, and in substance applicable
to the actions hereby provided ; nor any special proceedings provided for by the revised statutes, except that
when in consequence of any such proceeding, a civil
action shall be brought, such action shall be conducted in
conformity with this act. _

SEC. 366. Chapter one hundred twelve and one hundred
ninteen of the revised statutes, except sections six, seven,

eight, nine, ten, eleven, twenty-live and twenty-six, of A

the first named chapter, and chapter eighty-nine of the
session laws of eighteen hundred fifty one are hereby repealed, except as the provisions of said chapter are allowed by this act to apply to suits under this code.

Sac. 367. The secretary of state shall, forthwith, after
the passage of this act, cause six thousand copies thereof
to be printed in a separate pamphlet, as session laws are

