1. If the plaintiff' in an action of detinue shall desire to have immediate possession of the property ·tor the recovery of which such
action is brought, he may, at the commencement of the action, or at
any time after, and before judgment, file with the clerk of the court
in which the action is brought, or if the action is brought before a
justice, with the justice before whom the same is brought or is pending, an affidavit stating the kind, quantity, and value of the property claimed by the plaintiff in such action, and that the affiant
verily believes the plaintiff is entitled to recover the same therein.
He shall also, in such case, execute a bond, with good security, to
be approved by the clerk or justice, in a penalty at least double the
value of the property claimed, payable to the defendant. with condition to pay all costs and damages which may be awarded nga\DSt
him, or sustained by any person by reason of such snit, and to have
the property so claimed forthcoming to answer any judgment or order of the court or justice respecting the same, made at any time
during the pendency of the action, and shall file such bond with the
clerk or justice.

2. If such affidavit and bond be filed at the commencement of the
action, the clerk or justice shall endorse on the summons an order
to the officer to whom the same is directed, to seize and take into
his possession the property mentioned in such summons. But i fthe
sa-ne he filed after the commencement of the action, the clerk or
justice shall issue an order reciting the pendency of the action, and
stating the kind, quantity, and value of the property for which the
action is brought, and requiring the officer to whom the same is directed, to seize and take into his possession the property mentioned
in such order.

3. It shall be the duty of the officer to whom any such summons
or order is delivered, to proceed forthwith to execute the same; and
he may, if necessary, break open and enter any house or other inclosure in which such property may be, in order to seize the same.


4. The defendant in any such action may have the property taken
possession of by such officer, by virtue of such summons or order,
returned to him at any time within three days after such taking,
upon executing a bond with good security, to be approved by said
officer, payable to the plaintiff, in a penalty at least double the value
of such property, with condition to pay all costs and damages which
may be awarded against him in said action, and all damages which
. may be sustained by any person by reason of the return of said property to him, and to have the property forthcoming to answer any
judgment or order of the court or justice respecting the same, made
at any time during the pendency of the action; which hood shall be
delivered to such officer, and by him returned to the office of the clerk
or justice who issued such summons or order. U poo the reception
of such bond by the officer aforesaid, he shall forthwith return the
property taken by him to the defendant ; but in case no Ruch bond
be delivered to such officer within said three days, the property shall
be delivered by the officer to the plaintiff.

5. Either party may, upon reasonable notice to the other, except
to the sufficiency of the sureties in the bond of such other party and
the court, or the judge thereof in vacation or the justice before
whom such action is pending, may, upon the hearing of such exceptions, make such order in the premises as may seem just and
equitable.

6. Upon the final trial of any such action, if the verdict be for
the plaintiff', and he be not already in possession of the property
claimed, the judgment shall be that he recover the possession of said
property, if a recovery thereof can be had, and if not, that he recover the value thereof as found by euch verdict, and in either event,
that he recover the damages assessed by the jury for the detention
of said property, and his costs in such action. And it shall be the
duty of the jury in such cases to ascertain and assess such damages as
the plaintiff has sustained by reason of the detention of such property by the defendant. If the plaintiff' be already in possession of
'such property the judgment shall be that he retain the possession
thereof, and for damages and costs as aforesaid. In case the verdict
at such trial be for the defendant, if the plaintiff' be in possession
of the property claimed, the jury shall in Iike manner, ascertain
and assess the damages sustained by the defendant by reason of the
detention of said property by the plaintiff, and also the value of said
property, and judgment shall be entered upon such verdict in a11 respects as is provide<l in case the verdict be for the plaintiff'.

7. The execution issued in such cases shall conform in all things
tc the judgment entered therein.

1. An action for seduction may be maintained, without any allegation or proof of the loss of the service of the female, by reason of
the defendant's wrongful act.
2. All words which, from their usual construction and common acceptation, are construed as insults, and tend to violence and breach
of the peace, shall be actionable. No demurrer shall preclude a jury
from passing thereon.

3. If property be distrained for any rent not due, or attached tor
any rent not accruing, or taken under any attachment sued out without ""ood cause, the owner of such property may, in an action against
the party suing out the war:ant of distress or attachment, recover
damages for the wrongful seizure, and also, if the property be sold,
for the sale .thereof.

4. No action of replevin shall be hereafter brought.

5. Whenever the death of a person shall be caused by wrongful
act, neglect, or default, and the act, neglect, or default is such as
would (if denth had not ensued) have entitled the party injured to
maintain an action to recover damages in respect thereof; then, and
in every lSUCh case, the person who, or the corporation which, would
have been liable if death had not ensued, shall be liable to an action
for damages, notwithstanding the death of the person injured, and
although the death shall have been caused under such circumstances
as amount in law to murder in the first or second degree, or manslaughter.

6. (Acts 1882, p. 309.) Every such action shall be brought by and
in the name of the personal representative of such deceased person;
and the amount recovered in every such action shall be distributed
to the parties and in the proportions provided by law in relation to
the distribution of personal estates left by persons dying intestate.
In every such action the jury may give such damages as they shall
deem fair and just, not exceeding ten thousand doJlars, and the
amount so recovered shall not be subject to any debts or liabilities
of the deceased; provided, that every such action shall be cqrumeneed
within two years after the death of such deceased person.

7. Any person injured by the violation of any statute may recover
from the offender such damages as he may sustain by reason of the
violation, although a p-nalty or forfeiture for such violation be
thereby imposed, unless the same be expressly mentioned to be in
lieu of such damages.

8. In any case in which an action of trespass will lie, there may
be maintained an action of trespass on the case.

9. Where common carriers are not incorporated, any one or more
of them may be sued by his or their name or names only, to recover
damages for loss or injury to any parcel, package, or person, and
such suit shall not abate for the want of joining any of his co-proprietors or co-partners.

1. No person shall make an entry on, or bring an action to recover, any land, but within ten years next after the time at which the right to make such entry or to bring such action shn11 have first
accrue l to himself or tn some person through whom he claims.

2. No continual or other claim upon or near any land shall preserve any right of making an entry or bringing an action.

3. If at the time at which the right of any person to make an entry on, or bring an action to recover, any land, shall have first accrued, such person was an infant, married woman, or insane, then
such person, or the person claiming through him, may, notwithstanding the said period of ten years shall have expired, (except in
the case of a married woman, where such land is her sole and separate property,) make an entry on, or bring an action to recover such
land, within five years next after the time at which the person to
whom such right shall have first accrued as aforesaid, shall have
ceased to be under such disability as existed when the same so accrued, or shall have died, whichever shall first have happened.

4. The preceding section is subject to these provisos: That no
such entry or action shall be made or brought by any person, who, at
the time at which his right to make or bring the same shall have
first accrued, shall be under any such disability, or by ony person
claiming through him, hut within twent.y years next after the time
at which such right shall have first accrued, although the person, under disability at such time, may have remained under the same during the whole of such twenty years, or although the term of ten
years from the period at which he shall have ceased to be under any
such disability, or have died, shall not have expired. And when
any person shall be under any such disability at the time at which
his right to make an entry or bring an action shall have first accrued, and shall depart this life without having ceased to be under
any such disability, no time to make an entry or to bring an action,
beyond the ten years next after the right of such person shall have
first accrued, or the five years next after the period of his death, shall
be allowed by reason of any disability of any other person.

5. All actions pending on the twenty-seventh day of March,
one thousand eight hundred and sixty-one, or brought within
two years thereafter, for the recovery of land, and not determined on the day this chapter takes effect, shall be governed
as to limitation by the law in force on the twenty-sixth day of March,
one thousand eight hundred and sixty-one; and all such actions
brought after the expiration of the said two years, and pending on the
first day of April, one thousand eight hundred and sixty-nine, shall
be governed as to limitation by the law in force on the day previous thereto. All such actions, brought on or after the first day of
April, one thousand eight hundred and sixty-nine, shall be governed
as to limitation by the law in force on the day before this chapter as
amended takes effect, anything in any statute passed since the seventeenth day of April, one thousand eight hundred and sixty-one,
to.,the contrary notwithstanding.

6. Every action to recover money, which is founded upon an award,
or on any contract other than a judgment or recognizance, shall be
brought within the following number of years next after the right
to bring the same shall have first accrued, that is to say: If the case
be upon an indemnifying bond taken under any statute, or upon a
bond of an executor, administrator, guardian, curator, committee,
sheriff or deputy sheriff, clerk or deputy clerk, or any other fiduciary
or public officer within ten years; if it be upon any other contract
by writing under seal, executed before the first day of April, one
thousand eight hundred and sixty-nine, within twenty years, but if
executed on or after that day within ten years; if it be upon an
award, or upon a contract by writing, signed by the party to be
charged thereby, or by his agent, but not under seal, within ten
years; and if it be upon any other contract, within five years, unless
it be an action for an article charged in any store account, in which
case .the action may be brought within three years, or an action by
one partner against his co-partner for a settlement of the partnership accounts, or upon accounts concerning the trade of merchandise between merchant and merchant, their factors or servants, where
the action of account would lie, in either of which cases the action may be brought until the expiration of five years from a cessation of the dealings in which they are interested together, but not
after. 

7. The right of action upon the bond of an executor, administrator, guardian, curator, or committee, or of a sheriff acting as such,
shall be deemed to have first accrued as follows: Upon a bond of a
guardian or curator of a ward, from the time of the ward's attaining the age twenty-one years, or from the termination of the guardian's or curator's office, whichever shall happen first; and upon
the bond of any personal representative of a decedent or committee
of an insane person, the right of action of a person obtaining execution against such representative or committee, or to whom paymeat or delivery of estate in the hands of such representative or
committee shall be ordered by a court acting upon his account, shall
be deemed to have first accrued from the return day of such execution, or from the time of the right to require payment or delivery
upon such order, whichever shall happen first. And as to any suit
against such fiduciary himself, or his representative, which could
have been maintained if he ha<l given no bond, there shall be no
other limitation than would exist if the preceding section were not
passed.

8. If any persou against whom the right shall have so accrued
on an award or on any such contract, shall, by writing signed by
him or his agent, promise payment of money on such award or contract, the person to whom the right shall have so accrued may maintain an action or suit for the money so promised, within such number
of years after the said promise, as it might originally have been
maintained within upon the award or contract, and the· plaintiff
may either sue on such 'promise, or on the original cause of action,
and in the latter Gase, in answer to a plea under the sixth section,
may, by way of replication, state such promise,' and that such action
was brought within the said number of years thereafter; but no'
promise, except by writing as aforesaid, shalt take any case out of the·
operation of the said sixth section, or deprive any party of the benefit
thereof. An acknowledgment in writing as aforesaid, from which a'
promise of payment may be implied, shall be deemed to be sueh
promise within the meaning of this section.

9. No acknowledgment or promise by any personal representative
of a decedent, or by one of two or more joint contractors, shall charge
the estate of such decedent, or charge. any other of such contractors,
in any.ease, in which, but for such acknowledgment or promise, the
decedent's estate or another contractor could have been protected
under the sixth section of this chapter.

10. No provision in the will of any testator, devising his real es- .
tate, or any part thereof, subject to the payment of his debts, or
charging the same therewith, shall prevent this chapter from opera~iug against such debts, unless it plainly appear to be the testator's
. intent that it shall not so operate.

11. Every action or scire f acias upon a recognizance shall, if ,it be
not a recogizance of bail, be commenced within ten years next after
the right to bring the same shall have first accrued, and if it be a recognizance of bail, within three years after the right to bring the
same shaJl have first accrued.·

12. Every personal action for which no limitation is otherwise
prescribed, shall be brought within five years next after the right to
bring the same shall have accrued, if-it be for a matter of such nature that, in case a party die, it can be brought by or against his representative;
and if it be for a matter not of such nature, ahall be
brought within one year next after the right to bring the same shall
have accrued, and not after.

13. Every action or suit upon a judgment or decree, rendered in
any other state or country, shall be barred, if by the laws of such
state or country such action or suit would there be barred, and the
judgment or decree be incapable of being otherwise enforced there.
And whether so barred or not, no action against a person who shall
have resided .in this state during the ten years next preceding such
action, shall be brought upon any such judgment or decree rendered
more than. ten years before the commencement of such action.

14. No gift, conveyance, assignment, transfer or charge, which iCJ
not on consideration deemed valuable in law, shall be avoided, either
in whole or in part, for that cause only, unless within five years after it is made, suit be brought for that purpose, or the subject thereof, or some part of it, be distrained or levied upon by or at the suit
of a creditor, as to whom such gift, conveyance, assignment, transfer or charge is declared to be void by the second section of the seventy-fourth chapter of this code.

15. A bill in equity to repeal, in whole or in
any grant of
land by this state or of the state of Virginia, shal be brought within ten years next after the date of such grant, and not after.

16. If any person to whom the right accrues to bring any such
personal action, suit, or seire facias, or any such hill to repeal a grant,
shall be, at the time the same accrues, an infant, married woman,.or
insane, the same ( except in the case of the married woman, as provided
in section three of this chapter.) may be brought within the like number of years after his becoming of full age, unmarried, or sane, that
is allowed to a person having no such impediment, to bring the same
after the right accrues, or after such acknowledgment as aforesaid,
except that it shall in no case be bronght after twenty years from the
time when the right accrued.

17. If a person die before the time at which any right mentioned
in this chapter would have accrued to him if he had continued alive,
and there be an interval of more than five years between the death
of such person and the qualification of his personal representative,
such personal representative sball, for. the purposes of this cl1apter,
be deemed to have qualified on the last day of the said five years.

18. Where any such right as is mentioned in this chapter shall
accrue aguiust a person who had before resided in this state, if such
person shall, by departing without the same, or by absconding or
concealing himself, or by any other indirect waysor means, obstruct
the prosecution of such right, or if such right has been or shall be
hereafter obstructed by war, insurrection or rebellion, the time that
such obstruction may have continued shall not be computed as any
part of the time within which the said right might or ought to have
been prosecuted. But if another person be jointly or severally liable with the person so obstructing the prosecution of such right, and
no such obstruction exist as to him, the exception contained in this
section as to the person so absconding shall uot apply to him in any
action or suit brought against him to enforce such liability. And
upon a contract which was made and was to be performed in another
state or country, by a person who then resided therein, no action
shall be maintained after the right of action thereon is barred by
the laws of such state or country.

19. If.any action, commenced within due time, in the name c,f. or
against one or more plaintiffs or defendtnte, abate as to one of them
by the return of no inhabitant, or by his or· her death or marriage,
or if, in an action commenced withiu due time, judgmeas (or other
and further proceedings) for the plaintifil should be arrested or reversed, on a ground which does not preclude a new action for the
same·cause, or if there be occasion to bring a new suit by reason of
the said cause having been dismissed-for want of security for· costs,
or by reason· of any other cause, which could· not be plead in bar of
an action, of the loss or destruction of any of the papers or records
in a tormer suit which was in due time ; in every such case, notw.ithstanding the expiration of the time within which a new action
or- suit muet otherwise .have been brought, the same may be brought
within one year after such abatement, dismissal-or other cause, or after such arrest or reversal of judgment, or such loss or destruction,
but not after.


2. All acts and parts of acts inconsistent with the provisions of
this aet, and coming within the purview thereof, are hereby repealed.

1. All waste and unappropriated lands within this state, and all
lands in this state heretofore vested in the state of Virginia by forfeiture or purchase at the sheriff's or collector's sale for deJinq uent
taxes and not released and exonerated or redeemed within one year,
according to law; all lands heretofore. or hereafter purchased for
this state, at a sale thereof for taxes, and not redeemed within one
year, according to law; and all lands forfeited to this state for the
failure to have the same entered upon the land. books of the pro.per
county, and charged with the taxes thereon, as provided for by law,
shall, so far as the title thereof shall not be vested in junior grantees
or claimants under the provisions of the constitution and laws of
this state, be sold for the benefit of the school fund, in the manner
hereinafter prescribed. The auditor shall certify to the clerk of the
circuit court a list of all such lands, which, or the greater part of
which, lie in his county, within sixty days after the title thereto
shah vest in the state.

2. It shall be the duty of the surveyor of each county in this state,
as soon as the same shall come to his knowledge, to report to the cir ..
euit court all waste and unappropriated lands in his county, except
the lands under the bed of the Ohio river, subject. to sale under the
provisions of this chapter; designating particularly the quantity of
the tract or parcel, and the local situation thereof, together with all
information he can procure in relation to the same, and of any claim
of title thereto.

3. In order to enable the auditor to make the record required by·
section thirty-nine of chapter thirty-one of this code, and to make'
the report to the clerk of the circuit court required by the first see-.
tion of this chapter, it· shall be the duty of every clerk of a county:
court in this state in whose county any real estate should be entered on
the land books and charged with taxes as required by law, but which:
is not so entered and charged with taxes, upon discovering any such.
failure, to report to the auditor all the facts in relation thereto, re-,
quired to be.entered in such record by the said thirty-ninth section
of said chapter thirty-one.

4. The circuit court of every county shall, from time to time, appoint a commissiner of school lands for such county, who shall do·
and perform the duties and exercise the p•;wers hereinafter provided
for. Every such commissioner shall, before entering upon the duties of his office, take an oath in open court that he will faithfully,
to the best of his skill and judgment, execute the duties of his office,
and shall give bond with good security to be approved by the court·
in the penalty of at least five thousand dollars, conditioned that he.
will faithfully and impartially discharge the duties of his office, and
will pay over and account for, according to law, all moneys, bonds
and other securities which may come to his 'hands by virtue of his
office. He shall, as far as possible, see that every officer having any
duty to perform under this chapter performs the same as thereiu required, and report any failure of any such officer to do so to the
circuit court of his county.
school lands once
as aforesaid, and
of due diligence,
to obtain all the lands which have become or been asoertained to be
liable to sale under the provisions of this chapter, as to which proceedings have been commenced for the sale thereof, to file his petition, in which he shall include all the tracts, lots and parts and parcels of any tract or lot of land so liable to sale, in the circuit court·
of his county, praying that the same be sold for the benefit of the
school fund. In such petition he shall state according to the best
of his information and belief, the local situation, quantity, or sup- ·
posed quantity and probable value of each tract, lot, or parcel and
part of a tract of land therein mentioned, together with all the
tacts at his command in relation to the title to the same, and to each
tract, lot, part or parcel thereof; .. the claimant or claimants thereof,
and their residence if known, and if not known that fact shall be
stated; and stating also how and when, and in whose name every
such tract, lot and parcel arid part of a tract or lot was forfeited to the
. state. Upon the filing of .suqh petition the court shall direct a
. summons to be jssued by its clerk against the claimants, if any,
named in .the petition, the persqn or. persons jn whose name the same
was forfeited, and all unkuown parties, having or claiming the land,
or any part of them named in the petition, requiring them to appear
before a commissioner in chancery of the court at a time and place
to be therein named, and show cause, it any they can, why. the said
. lands shall not be sold for the benefit of the school fund.
The summons shall be serv~d on each of the persons named therein, if they
can be found in the county, and as to such of them as cannot be found
in the county, and such unknown parties, it shall be published at
least once in each week, for four successive weeks, in some newspaper printed in the county, and if there be no such paper printed
in the county, then in some news(Japn of general circulation therein;
and if no such newspaper will publish such summons, it shall be
posted at the front door of the court house of such county, and at some
public place in each magisterial. district therein, at least four weeks
before the day named therein for the appearance of the parties before
said commissioners and sucb publication or posting, when so made or
done, shall be equivalent to the personal service of the said summons
on all the parties named therein, upon whom it has not been served
personally, and on all the said unknown parties.

6. The said court shall also, by a proper decree, refer the said petition to a commissioner in chancery thereof, with instructions to
enquire into and report upon the matters.and
things therein contained, and such others as the court may think proper to direct, and
particularly to enquire and report as to the amount of taxes and interest due and unpaid on each tract, lot and parcel, and part of a
tract, or lot of land mentioned in the petition, in whose name it was
forfeited, and when and how forfeited, in whom the legal title was
at the time of the forfeiture, and • if more than one person claimed
ad verse titles thereto at the date of the forfeiture, the name of each of
such claimants and a reference to the deed book or books in which the
title papers of any claimant thereof can be found; what portion or portions, if any, of any such lands is claimed by any person or persons
under the provisions of section three of article thirteen of the constitution of this state, with the names of such claimants and the
amount claimed by each as far as he can ascertain the same,
But
such commissioner shall not proceed under said decree until the sum. mons aforesaid shall have been served as required by the next preceding section.
If it be necessary to enable the commissioner to
perform his duties under this section, he shall employ the surveyor
of the county to do such surveying as is necessary to be done for
that purpose, or if there be no such s~irveyor, or he be interested, or
for any reason it shaH be improper for him to act, the commissioner
may employ another surveyor for the purpose.

7. The commissioner shall proceed with all reasonable diligence
to perform the duties required of him by such decree, and as soon as
his report iij completed he shall file the same in the office of the clerk
of the ci rcuit court, and the commissioner of school lands and any
other person interested therein, may ftle e~ceptions 'thereto, at any
time after such filing in the clerk's office and before the hearing
thereon. But no hearing shall be had on said report at the first
term after it is filed, unless the same was filed at least thirty days
before the commencement of such term.

8. If there be 110 exceptions to such report, or if there be exceptions thereto which are overruled, the court shall confirm the same
and decree a sale of the lands, or any part of them therein mentioned, which are subject to sale for the benefit of the school fund,
upon such terms and conditions as to the court may seem right and
proper. When exceptions are filed to such report, which are sustained in whole or in part, the same proceedings shall be had io the
case as if it were a suit in chancery. The sale of any Huch land made
under a decree therefor shall be made, conducted and reported, and
such proceedings shall be had thereon in all respects as if such sale
bad been made under a decree in a snit in chancery, and the court
may from time to time, decree a sale of any one or more of the tracts
or lots, or parts or parcels thereof, without waiting to determine the
question as to the sale of the whole thereof mentioned in the petition.

9. Every such sale shall, unless the court otherwise order, be made
by the commissioner of school ladda upon the terms, conditions and
notice provided for in the decree of sale. The commissioner of
school lands, or other commissioner, making such sale shall make a
report thereof to the court which decreed the same, in which he
shall state the name of each purchaser and the particular truct or
tracts, lot or lots, or parts or parcels of any tract or lot purchased by
him, and the quantity, as near as may be, so purchased by each purchaser; the amount of the purchase money of each tract, lot or parcel, or the part thereof so purchased; the amount of the purchase
money paid on each at the time of the purchase, and the amount of
the notes taken for the residue of the purchase money; the name of
the surety in such notes, and the time at which they will become
due and payable; the gross amount of money in his bands arising
from such sales, and the costs and legal expenses thereof, exclusive
of his commissions. He shall return with his report all notes and
.securities taken by him for the purchase money of the real estate
sold by him, and the clerk of the court shall endorse thereon the
-day they will respectively become due and payable, and flle and preserve the same in his office ; and such notes and securities shall, if
not paid when due, have the force of judgments against the makers
thereof or the obligors therein, from and after the day they HO become
due and payable. The court in which such proceedings are had may,
on motion of the commissioner of school Iands, award execution on
.any such note or security against the makers thereof, or the obligors
therein, or the personal representatives of any of them, for the prin-0tpal sud interest due thereon and the costs, including an attorney's
fee of not less than five nor more than ten dollars, as the court shall
order. Every such motion shall be after ten days notice thereof
served upon Huch makers or obligors, of the day on which the motion will be made.

10. Everv commissioner shall receive for his services under this
-chapter the "following compensation and no other, to-wit: For filing
the petition mentioned in the fifth section of this chapter and for attending to all the proceedings thereunder for the sale of the lands
therein mentioned, one dollar for each tract and lot, and each part
-or parcel of a tract or lot, the sale of which shall be decreed by the
court. For all moneys collected and paid over by him as such commissioner, a commission of not less than five nor more than ten per
-cent. on the amount thereof. For each deed to a purchaser of any
part ot such lands, five dollars. For prosecuting all suits and pro·Ceedings for the collection of the purchase money of any such lands
he shall receive the attorney's fees taxed by the court therein if they
are recovered from the defendants, but not otherwise. And in ad-dition thereto he shall be allowed all reasonable and proper expenses necessarily incurred and actually paid by him in the proper dis.eharge of the duties of his office under this chapter, to be fixed and
adjusted by the court upon the production of sworn vouchers showing the amounts so paid and for what paid.

11. (Acts 1883, p. 54.) The costs of the proceedings shall be ascertained am] taxed by the clerk under the direction of the court,
and, except as provided in the next preceding section, paid out of
-the proceeds of the sale of the said real estate, and not otherwise, to
the several persons entitled thereto, if sufficient for the purpo9e ; but
if the proceeds are not sufficient to pay the whole of. such costs, the
same shall be paid therefrom to the several persons entitled thereto
If t.he residue of the proceeds of ·the sale of any such
real estate after the payment of such costs and commissions, and expenses of the commissioner of school lands as provided in the next
preceding section, be sufficient to pay all the state, county and disrtict taxes that may be due on said land, the said commissioner of
school lands shall pay any taxes on said land that may he due to the
county and district in which said real estate lies, to the sheriff of such
county, and he shall pay the balance of said proceeds into the treasury of the state for the benefit of the school fund ; hut if said proceeds are not sufficient to pay all of the taxes as aforesaid, then they
shall be paid into the treasury of the state and to the said sheriff, in
the proportion that all the taxes on such real estate due the state,
and the taxes due the said county and district on such real estate,
bear to the sum to he so distributed; and when uny money is paid to
any sheriff under this section, he shall divide the same between the
said county and district, according to the amount of taxes on said
real estate due to each ; he shall, within thirty days after receiving
the same, notify the clerk of the county court, and the clerk of the
board of education of said district, respectively, of the amount @O
paid him for said county and for said district, and he shall be charged
with and account for such money, as for other moneys collected by
him; and the said commissioner of school lands shall make a report
of all his proceedings hereunder to the circuit court of the county.

12. When the whole of the purchase money of any tract or lot of
land, or any part, or parcel of a tract or lot, purchased by any person at any such sale with the interest due thereon, and the costs, if
any, incurred in the collection thereof,
fully paid, the commissioner of school lands or other commissioner making the sale, shall
convey to the purchaser, his heirs, devisees or assigns, or to such
llerson as he orthey may direct, to be evidenced by him or them
joining therein by a proper deed, all the right, title and interest of
the state of West Virginia, in and to the real estate thereby conveyed, which passed to and vested in the state under the constitution
and laws thereof, by reason of the forfeiture of such real estate, or
otherwise. If the commissioner fail or refuse to make said deed,
the same may be made by a commissioner appointed by. the court
for the purpose as provided in section twenty-two of chapter thirtyone of th is code.

13. The former owner of any such land shall be entitled to recover
the excess of the sum for which the land may be sold over the taxes
charged and chargeable thereon, or which, if the land bad not been
forfeited, would have been charged or chargeable thereon, since the
formation of this state, with interest at the rate of twelve per centum •
per annum and the costs of the proceedings, ·if his claim be filed in
the circuit court that decrees the sale, within two years thereafter,
as provided in the next succeeding section.
the said circuit court, stating hi', title to such lands, accompanied
with the evidences thereof, and upon full and satisfactory proof that
at the time the title to said lands vested in the state he had a good
and valid title thereto, legal or equitable, superior to any other
claimant thereof, such court shall order the excess mentioned in the
next preceding section to be paid to him; and upon a properly certifie<l copy of such order being presented to the auditor, he shall
draw his warrant on the treasury in favor of such owner, or his personal representative, for such excess. At any time during the pendency of' the proceedings for the sale of any such land as herein before mentioned, such former owner, or any creditor of such former
owner of such land having a lieu thereon, may file his petition iu
said circuit court as hereinbefore provided, and asking to be allowed to redeem such part or parts of any tract of land so forfeited,
or the whole thereof, as he may desire, and upon such proof being
made as would entitle the petitioner to the excess of purchase money
hereinbefore mentioned, such court may allow him to redeem the
whole of such tract if he desire to redeem the whole, or such part or
parts thereof, as he may desire, less than the whole, upon the payment into court, or to the commissioner of school lands, all costs,
taxes and interest due thereon, as provided in this chapter, it he desire to redeem the whole of such tract; or if he desire to redeem
less than the whole of such tract, upon the payment, as aforesaid, ot
so much of the costs, taxes and interest due on such tract as will be
a due proportion thereof for the quantity so redeemed. But if the
petition be for the redemption of a less quantity than the \vhole of
such tract, it sha.ll be accompanied with a plat and certificate of
survey of the part or parts thereof sought to be redeemed. Whenever it shall satisfactorily appear that rhe petitioner is entitled to redeem such tract, or any part or parts thereof, the court shall make
an order showing the sum paid iu order to redeem the whole tract or
-, the part or parts thereof which the petitioner desires to redeem, and
declaring the tract, or part or parts thereof, redeemed from such forfeiture, so far as the title thereto was in the state immediately before the date of such order; which order, when so made, shall operate as a release of such forfeiture so far as the state is concemed, and
of all former taxes on said tract, or part or parts thereof so redeemed,
and no sale thereof shall be made. If the redemption be of a part
or parts of a tract, the plat or plats and certificate of the survey
thereof hereiabeforl mentioned, together with a copy of the order
allowing the redemption shall be recorded in a deed book in the office of the clerk of the county court. Provided, That such payment
and redemption shall in no way affect or impair the title to any por1 ion of such land transferred to and vested in any person, as provided in section three of article thirteen of the constitution of this
state.

2. All acts and parts o( acts, coming within the purview of this
act, and inconsistent therewith, are hereby repealed.

1. When any action at law or suit in equity is about to be or is
instituted for the recovery of any claim or debt arising out of contract, or to recover damages for any wrong, the plaintiff, at the commencement of the action or suit, or at any time thereafter, and before
judgment, may have an order of attachment against the property of
the defendant, on filing with the clerk of the court 'in which such
action or suit is about to be or is brought, his own affidavit, or that
of some credible person, stating the nature of the plaintiff's claim,
and the amount at the least, which the affiant believes the plaintiff'
is justly entitled to recover in the action; and also, that the affiant
believes that some one or more of the fi,llowing grounds exist for
such attachment:
First. That the defendant, or one of the defendants, is a foreign
corporation, or is a non-resident of this state; or
Second. Has left, or is about to leave the state, with intent to defraud his creditors; or,
Third. So conceals himself that a summons cannot be served upon
him; or,
Fourth. Is removing, or is about to remove his property, or a material part thereof, out of this state, with intent to defraud his creditors; or,
Fifth. Is converting, or is about to convert, his property, or a
material part thereof, into money er securities, with intent to defraud his creditors; or,
Sixth, Has assigned or disposed of his property, or a material part
thereof, or is about to do so, with intent to defraud his creditors; or,
Seoenth, Has property or rights in action which he conceals; or,
Eighth. Fraudulently contracted the debt or incurred the liability
for which the action or snit is about to be or is brought.
And unless the attachment is sued out upon the first of such
grounds, the affiant sht11l also state in his affidavit, the material facts
relied on by him to show the existence of the grounds upon which
his application for the attachment is based. The order shall be issued
by the clerk, and may be in form or effect as follows:
" A-B--,
plaintiff, )
vs.
f\ Order of attachment.
C-D--,
defendant,
The plaintiff in this case having filed his affidavit as required by
law, the sheriff of the county of -, or a constable of any district
therein, to whom this order may come, is required, in the name of
the state of West Virginia, to attach the estate of the defendant, C
-D--, sufficient to pay the sum of --,
(the amount affiant
states the plaintiff is justly entitled to recover,) and the costs of this
suit, and make return of his proceedings under this order to the
next term of the
court, (or at rules to be held for the --court, on the -day of
, naming in either case the court in
which the action is brought.)
Witne~s E-F--,
clerk of said court, this -day ot --.
E
F
, Clerk."
And such attachment may be sued out in a court of equity for a
debt or claim legal or equitable not due, upon any of the grounds
aforesaid, but the affidavit in such case must show when it will become due. Provided, That an attachment shall not be sued out
against a foreign corporation for a debt not due upon the ground
alone that it is a foreign corporation, nor against & non-resident defendant for a debt not due unless the affiant show by his affidavit
that he was a resident of this state when the debt was contracted,
and that the plaintiff believed he would remain a resident of this
state at the time he gave him credit.

2. lf the plaintiff at the time of suing out his attachment, or afterwards before judgment, give the bond and security required by
the sixth section of this chapter, such order may be in form or effect
as follows:
"A-B--,
plaintiff }
vs.
.
Order of Attachment.
C-D--,
defendant,
The plaintiff in this case having filed the necessary affidavit and
bond, the sheriff of the county of--,
or a constable of any district
therein, to whom this order shall come, is hereby required, in the
name of the state of West Virginia, to attach and take into his possession the estate of· the defendant, C
D
, sufficient to
pay the sum of-dollars, (the amount affiant states the plaintiff is
justly entitled to recover,) and the costs of this suit, and make retnrn
of his proceedings under this order to the next term of the --court (or at the rules to be held for the
court on the -day of
, naming in either case the court in which the action
is brought.)
Witness: E--F---,
clerk of said court, this --· day
of--.
•
E
F
, Clerk."
An order of attachment under this or the preceding section may··
be issued and directed to the sheriff or a constable in any county of
this state; and several such orders may be issued and delivered to
different officers at the same or different times.

3. (See ch. 50, sec. 195.) On complaint by any lessor or his agent
to a justice, that any person liable to him for rent intends to remove,
or is removing, or has within thirty <lays removed his effects from
the leased premises, if such lessor, or his ageut, make oath to the
truth of such complaint to the best of his belief, and to the rent
which is reserved (whether in money or other thing), and will be
payable· within one year, and the time or times when it will be payable, and also make oath either that there is not, or he believes,
unless an attachment issues, there will not be, left on such premises
property liable to distress sufficient to satisfy the rent so to become
payable, such justice shall, if the rent so claimed exceed fifty dollars,
exclusive of interest, issue an order of attachment for the said rent
against the personal estate of the person so liable therefor, returnable to the next term of the circuit court thereafter.
The order of
attachment in such case shall be in form or effect as follows:
"District
A--C---
B--,
vs.
D
Plaintiff'.
of---, ---
County, to-wit:
}
Order of Attachment.
, Defendant.
The above named plaintiff having filed with me the affidavit required by law, the sheriff' of the county of ---,
or auy constable therein to whom this order may come, is hereby required, in the
name of the state of West Virginia, to attach and take into his possession the personal estate of the defendant. C--D
, suffi- ·
cient to pay the sum of
dollars, (the sum affiant states will
be due), and the costs of this attachment, and to make return of his
proceedings under this order to the next term of the circuit court of
the said county.
Given under my hand this -day of---.
E
F
, Justice."
The defendant in an attachment issued under this section may
make defense thereto in the same manner and to the same extent as
in other cases; and the same 13.s to the rent claimed, shall be proceeded in, tried and determined, as if it were au originnl action
brought in said court, and the affidavit and attachment shall take the
place of a declaration in the case.
And the affidavit in such case
shall be returned to the clerk of the circuit court. by the justice.

4. The officer to whom any attachment issued under this chapter
shall be delivered for execution, shall execute and return the same as
therein required, and if he fail to do so, he and his sureties in his official bond shall be liable to the plaintiff in the case for all damages
Le may sustain by reason , -f such '1ilure.

5. Every attachment is- ied under the provisions of this chapter,
may be levied upon any estate, real or personal, of the defendant
named therein, or so .much thereof as is sufficient to pay the amount
for which it issues, except that an attachment issued under the
third section shall be levied on personal estate only. The plaintiff may, by an endorsement on the order, designate any person as
.being indebted to, or having in his possession, the effects of the defendant, or one of the defendants; and in such case the clerk shall
make as many copies of the order as there are persons designated,
with an endorsement thereon that the person so designated is required to appear ut the next term of the court in which the action
or snit is pending, and disclose on oath in what sum he is indebted
to the defendant, and what effects of the defendant he has in his
hands; and it shall be sufficiently levied on such person by delivering him a copy of the order and endorsement, or by a service thereof
upon him in the same manner as a notice ·may by Jaw be serveu ;
and if the same be levied upon real estate, it shall be sufficiently
served by an endorsement thereon, or upon a pape1· annexed thereto
stating as near as may be, the quantity, or the supposed quantity,
and the locution thereof.

6. But if the plaintiff' shall, at the time or suing out such attachment, or afterwards, gi\'e bond with good security, approved by the
clerk i:;suing thE' attachment, in a penalty of at least double the
amount of the claim sworn to, with condition to pay all costs and
damages which may be awarded against him, or sustained by any
person hy reason of the suing ont of the attachment, and to pay to
any claimant of any property seized or sold under or by virtue of
said attachment, ull damages which he may recover in consequence
of such seizure or sale; and also to warrant and defend to any purchaser of the property such estate or interest therein as is sold, the
said officer shall take possession of the property levied on by virtue
of such attachment.
If such bond be given, no action shaJl he maintained against the officer levying such attachment upon property or
effects not belonging to the debtor, unless it shall appear that such
levy was wilfully and knowingly made. If the plaintiff has sued
out an order of attachment without giving such bond, and after,
wards give the same as aforesaid, it shall he the duty of such clerk,
whether the attachment has been levied or not, to certifv the fact
that such bond has been given to the officer who levied the same, or·
in whose ha .ids it was to be levied, or if he be absent or out of office, to issue a new order of attachment and to place the same in the
hands of some other proper officer; and it shall be the duty of any
such officer to take the attached property into his possession and
make return of such order in like manner as if said bond had been
given before the issuing of the original attachment.
The defendant
may except to the said bond, or to the sufficiency of the security
therein, and if the exceptions be sustained by the court, the attached
property shall he returned to the defendant, unless the plaintiff give
a proper bond, with sufficient security, to be approved by the court
within such time as the said court shall direct.

7. The officer serving the attachment shall make return of the
time and manner of service on each person designated as being indebted to, or having in his possession, the property of any such defendant ; and shall also return a list and description of the property
taken (if nny) under such attachment, and likewise the date of the
service, or execution thereof, on each person and parcel of property.

8. Such attachment may be issued or executed on Sunday if oath
be made that the defendant is actually removing his effects on that
day.

9. The plaintiff shall have a lien, from the time of the levying of
attachment, or serving a copy thereof, as aforesaid, upon the
personal property, choses in action, and other securities of the defendunt against whom the claim is, in the hands of, or due from,
any such garnishee on whom it is so served, and on any real estate
levied on hy virtue thereof, from the suing out of the same. But if
no bond be given by the plaintiff, and such personal property, choses
in action, or other securities of the defendant, or any part thereof,
be sold or disposed of for a valuable conside ..·ation, the lien of the
attaehment thereon shall cease and determine from the date of such
sale or disposition.

10. Any property levied on or seized as aforesaid under any attachment, where the plaintiff has given bond, may be retained by, or
returned to, the person in whose possession it was, on his giving
bond, with condition to have the same forthcoming at such time and
place as the court may require; or the defendant against whom the
claim is may release from any attachment the whole of the est.ate
attached, hy giving bond, with condition to perform the judgment
or decree of the court. The bond, in either case, shall be taken by
the officer serving the attachment, with security, payable to the
plaintiff, and in a penalty, in the latter case, at least double the
amount or value for which the attachment issued, and in the former,
either doubl- the same or double the value of the property retained
or returned, at the option of the person giving it.

11. Every such bond shall be returned by the officer to, and filed
by, the clerk of the court in which the suit is pending, or to which
the attachment is returnable; and the plaintiff may, within thirty
days atter the return thereof, file exceptions to the same, or to the
sufficiency of the security therein. If such exceptions be sustained,
the court shall rule the said officer to file a good bond, with sufficient
security, to be approved by it, on or before a certain day to be fixed
by the court. If he fail to do so; he and his sureties in his official
bond shall be liable to the plaintiff' as for a breach of such bond.
But the officer shall have the same rights and remedies against the
parties to any bond so adjudged bad, as if he were a surety for
such them.

12. When any attachment is sued out, either at Jaw or in equity
(except against non-residents), on such affidavit as is mentioned in
the first section of this chapter, alt.hough the property or estate attached he not replevied as aforesaid, the interest and profits thereof,
pending the suit and before judgment or decree, may be paid to the
defendant, if the court deem it proper; and at any time during such
period the court, or in vacation the judge thereof, may discharge
the attachment, as to the whole of the estate of the defendant against
whom the claim is, on his giving bond, with security, payable to the
plaintiff' in a penalty double the value of such estate, with condition,
if judgment or decree be rendered for the plaintiff in said suit, to
pay the said value, or so much thereof as may be necessary to satisfy
the same.

13. AH property seized under any attachment, and not rcplevied
or sold before judgment, shall be kept in the same manner as similar property taken under execution.
But such as is expensive to
keep, or perishable, may be sold by order of the court, or in vacation thereof, by order of the judge ; such sale to be made in the
same manner as if it were a sale under execution, except that where
the claim for which the attachment was sued out is uot yet payable,
or the court or judge sees other reasons for directing a credit, the
sale under this, or any other section of this chapter, shall be ou credit
until the time it is payable, or such other time as the court or judge
may direct, nod for the proct .is <)f sale, bond with good security
shall be taken, payable to the u;1;c(;r, Ior the benefit of the party entitled, and shall be returned by th,! officer to the court.

14. When any garnishee shall appear he shall be examined on
oath. If it appear on such examination, or by his answer to a bil1
in equity, that at or after the service of the attachment he was indebted to the defendant against whom the claim is, or had in his
possession or control any goods, chattels, money, securities or other
effects belonging to the said defendant, the court muy order him to
pay the amount so due by him, and to deliver such effects to such
person as it may appoint as receiver; or such garnishee, with leave
of the court, may give bond, with sufficient security, payable to such
person and in such penalty as the court may prescribe, with condition to pay the amount due by him and have such effects forthcoming at such time and place as the court may thereafter require.

15. If any garnishee summoned as aforesaid fail to appear in an
attachment at law, the court may either compel him to appear or
hear proof of any debt due by him to, or effects in his hands of, the
defendant in such attachment, and make such orders in relation
thereto as if what is so proved had appeared in his examination.

16. When it is suggested by the plaintiff in any attachment at
law that the garnishee has not fully disclosed the debts doe by him
to, or effects in his hands of, the defendant in such attachment, the
court shall cause a jury to be impaneled, without any formal pleadings, to inquire as to such debts and effects, and proceed in respect.
to any such found by the jury in the same manner as if they had
been confessed by the garnishee. If the verdict be in favor of the
garnishee, he shall have judgment for his costs against the plaintiff.

17. When any attachment, except under the third section, is returned executed, an order of publication, as prescribed in chapter one
hundred and twenty-four, shall be made against the defendant
against whom the claim is, unless he has been served with a copy of
the attachment or with process in the suit in which the attachment
issued.

18. Either the defendant in any such attachment, or any garnishee,
or any party to any forthcoming or replevy hood given as aforesaid: or
the officer who may be liable to the plaintiff by reason of such bond
being adjudged bad, may make defense to such attachment, but the
attachment shall not thereby he discharged or the property levied
on released.

19. The right to sue out an attachment may he contested, and
when the court is of opinion that the facts stated in the affidavit
were not sufficient to authorize the issuing thereof, 01· that the affidavit is otherwise insufficient, judgment shall be entered that the attachment be quashed. If the defendant desire to controvert the existence of the grounds for the attachment stated in the affidavit, he
may file a plea in abatement. denying the existence of such grounds,
and tlie issue on such plea shall be tried by a jury, unless the same
he waived by the parties. The affirmative of such issue shall be
with the plaintiff'; and if he fail to prove to the satisfaction of the
jury the existence of the grounds denied by the defendant, the verdict
shall be for the defendant, and judgment shall be entered that the
attachment be abated. But the court may grant new trials as in
other cases. When the attachment is properly sued out, and the case
heard upon its merits, if the court be of opinion that the claim of
the plaintiff is not established, final judgment shall be given for the
defendant. In either case the defendant shall recover his costs, and
there shall be an order for the restoration to him of the attached effects.

20. If the claim of the plaintiff in any suit or proceeding under
this chapter be established.judgment or decree shall be rendered for
him, and the court shall order the sale of uoy real or personal estate
levied upon under and by virtue of any such attachment, which
shall not have been previously sold or replevied under this chapter,
and direct the proceeds of the sale of such property and whatever
else the attachment has been levied upon, including what is embraced
by such replevy or forthcoming bond, to be applied in satisfaction
of such judgment or decree. But no real estate shall be sold under
such order until all other property and money so levied on as aforesaid has been exhausted, and then only so much thereof as is necessary to pay the judgment or decree.

21. When a sale of real estate is so ordered, the court shall prescribe in the order the terms of such sale and the officer or. person ty
whom it shall be made. The officer or person making such sale of
real estate shall report to the court which ordered the sale, the real
estate so sold by him, with the name of the purchaser, the sum for
which it sold, and the time and place of such sale. The court for
good cause, may refuse to confirm the sale, and order the property to
be re-sold ; but if good cause for setting the sale aside be not shown,
the court shall confirm the same, and shall direct a deed of conveyance of the real estate so sold to be ma<le to the purchaser thereof,
by the officer or person who sold t.he same, or by a special cornmissioner appointed for that purpose, whenever the purchase money
thereof, with its interest, shall have been fully paid. An officer
heretofore or hereafter directed by the court to make such conveyance may make the same in his official character, notwithstanding his
term of office shall have expired. And in case of the death, removal, inability, or failure or refusual to act, of the officer or person
heretofore or hereafter appointed to make any such sale or conveyance, before the same is made, the circuit court of the county in which
such judgment, decree or order was rendered or made, may appoint
a special commissioner to make such sale or conveyance, or both, as
required by such judgment, decree or order.

22. But if the defendant whose real estate is attached has noappeared in the action or suit, or been served with a copy of •the attachmeut sixty days before such judgment, decree or order, no sale
of the real estate so attached shall be made until the plaintiff or
some one for him, shall give bond, with sufficient security, in such
penalty as the court sha11 approve, with condition that the plaintiff
will perform such future order as may be made by the court in the
action or suit, in case the defendant appear and make defense therein within the time prescribed by law; Provided, that after the right
of a defendant to appear and make defense in any such action or
suit shall have expired by limitation or otherwise as prescribed in
this chapter, a sale of such real estate may be made under the judgment, order or decree, whether such bond has been given or not. If
personal property be levied upon, and ordered to be sold, where
there has been no such appearance or service of the attachment, as
aforesaid, and no bond has been given by the plaintiff as provided
in section six of this chapter, the court shall require such bond to
be given by the plaintiff, and if the plaintiff, or some one for him,
fail to give such bond within a reasonable time, the court shall dispose of such property,' or the proceeds thereof, as to it shall seem
just.


23. Any person interested may file his petition at any time before the property attached, as the estate of a defendant, is sold under the decree or judgment, or if the proceeds of the sale have not
been paid over to the plaintiff', or his assigns, within one year after
such sale, disputing the validity of the plaintiff's attachment thereon, or stating a claim thereto, or an interest in or lien on the same,
under any other attachment or otherwise, and its nature, and upon
giving security for costs, the court, without any other pleading, shall
impanel a jury to inquire into such claim, and if it be found that
the petitioner has title to, or lien on, or any interest in such property 01· its proceeds, the court shall make such order as is. necessary
to protect his rights j the cost of which inquiry shall be paid by
either party, at the discretion of the court.

24. The attachment first served on the same personal property,
or on the person having such property in his possession, shall have
priority of lien; and the officer making the levy shall note on the
order of attachment the day and hour at which the levy is made.
Provided, That where two or more attachments are delivered tothe
same officer at different times to be served, he shall serve them in
the order in which he receives them and wh .. n they are delivered at
the same time, they shall be served at the same time and be satisfied
pro raia out of the proceeds of the attached property.
REHEARING AFTER JUDGllEN'f OR DECREE.

25. If a defendant against whom, on publication, judgment or deeree has been or shall hereafter be rendered, in an action or suit in
which an attachment has been or may be sued out and levied as pro·
vided in this chapter, or his personal representatives, shall return
to or appear openly in this state he may, within one year after a copy
of such judgment or decree has been or shall be served upon him, at
the instance of the plaintiff, or within five years from the date of such
judgment or decree, if' he be not so served, petition to have the proceeding reheard. On giving security for the costs which have accrued and shall thereafter accrue, such defendant shall be admitted
to make defense against such judgment or decree, as if he had appeared in the case before the same was rendered, except that the title
of any bona fide purchaser to any property, real or personal, sold
under such attachment, shall not be brought in question or impeached. But this section shall not apply to any case in which the
petitioner, or his decedent, was served with a copy of the attachment,
or with process in the suit wherein it issued, more than sixty days
before the date of the judgment or decree, or to a case in which he
appeared and made defense.

26. On any rehearing or new trial had under the preceding section
of this chapter, if the judgment or decree be for the defendant, the
court may order the plaintiff in the original suit or his pe~sonal representative, to restore any money paid him under his judgment or decree therein, with interest from the date ofsuch order, to the defendant, or his personal representative, entitled thereto, and may enter a judgment or decree against him therefor; and it the defendant
or his personal representative, fail to recover on sueh rehearing or
uew trial, the original judgment or decree shall be confirmed; 'and
in either case the oo-t shall be adjudged to the prevailing party.

27. If, upon defense being -nade in any case io which property is
seized under an attaehmens, that the attachment was sued out with ...
out sufficient cause, it be found either by tb.e court or by the jury,
if one be impaneled, that the defense is well founded, judgment
may be entered for the defendant against the plaintiff for the damages
sustained by the defendant by reason thereof.

28. Where judgment or decree in favor of the plaintiff is rendered
in any case in which an attachment is sued out, and on appeal therefrom an appeal bond is given with condition to prosecute the appeal
with effect, or pay the debt, interest, costs and damages, as well as
the costs of the appeal, the officer in whose custody any attached
property may be shall deliver the same to the owner thereof.

29. Any bond authorized or required by any section of this chapter may be given either by the party himself or by any other person.
ARREST OF J>.F.FEXDANT.

30. A,o order for the arrest of a defendant in an action or suit
may be made by the court in which the action is pending, or by tbe
judge or clerk thereof in vacation, upon the affidavit of the plaintiff
or any credible person, showing to the satisfaction of the court, or
judge, or clerk thereof in vocation, the nature and justice of the
plaintiff's claim, the amount which the affiant believes the plaintiff' is entitled to recover in the action, and the existence of some
one or more of the following grounds for the arrest of the defendant:
First-That the defendant has removed, or is about to remove,
any of his property out of the state with intent to defraud his creditors; or
&cond-That he has converted, or is about to convert, his prop-.
erty or any part thereof into money or securities with like intent ;
or
Third-That he has assigned, disposed of or removed his property or any part thereof, or is ubeut to do so with like intent; or
Fourth-That he has property or rights in action which he fraudulently conceals ; or
Fifth-That he fraudulently contracted the debt or incurred the
liability for which the action or suit is brought; or
Sixth-That he is about to leave the state, and reside permanently
in another state or country, without paying the debt or liability for
which the action or suit is brought ..

31. When sufficient cause shall be shown for the arrest of n defendant as aforesaid, such court, judge or clerk shall make an order
directing the defendant to be arrested, and held to bail for such sum
as the said court, 'judge or clerk shall think fit, and the plaintiff
shall thereupon deliver to the clerk of the court in which the action
is pending, a bond in a penalty double the amount sworn to, executed
by himself, or some person for him, with one or more sufficient securities, to the effect that the plaintiff will pay the defendant all
darnazes he may sustain by reason of the arrest, should it thereafter
appea0rthat the order was wrongfully obtained.

32. Upon the delivery of the bond mentioned in the preceding
section, the clerk shall issue an order for the arrest of the defendant
in form or in substance as follows :
"A--
B--.
v~
plaintiff, }
·
Order of arrest.
C-- D--, defendant,
To the sheriff of the county of -: Yon are hereby required in ·
the name of the state of West Virginia, to arrest the defendant, C
-D--,
and commit him to the jail of the said county of--,
to be there safely kept, unless or until he shaJl give a hood, with
good security; in the penalty of -dol1ars, conditioned according
to law, and that yon return your proceedings under this order to the
next term of the circuit court of said county. Witness
E---F
---,
clerk of the said court, this -day of--.
E
F
, Clerk."

33. Under such order, the defendant against whom it issues shall
be arrested and committed to jail, unless bond be given in the sum
specified therein, with sufficient security, that in case there shall in
the action or suit be any judgment, decree or order ()D which a writ·
of .fieri facias may issue, and within four months after such judgment, decree, or order is rendered or made, interrogatories be filed .
under the fourth section of chapter one hundred and forty-one, with
a commissioner of the court wherein such judgment, decree, or order is, the defendant will, at the time the commissioner issues a summons to answer such interrogatories, be in the county in which such
commissioner may reside, and will, within the time prescribed in
such summons, file proper answers upon oath to such interrogatories, and make such conveyance and delivery as is required by the
said chapter, or in case of failure to file such answer and make such
conveyance and delivery, that the said defendant will perform and
satisfy the said judgment, decree or order.

34. The defendant arrested under such order may, at any time
pending the case, give bond to the officer making the· arrest. Such
bond shall be taken by said officer and returned by him to the clerk
of the court from which the order issued, and the same shall be filed
in said clerk's office.

35. If the defendant gives such bond, or be committed to jail for
want of it, the court in which the case is pending, or the judge thereof in vacation, may, after reasonable notice to the plaintiff, or bis
attorney or counsel, quash the order and discharge the defendant
from custody, or discharge the bond on being satisfied that the same
was wrongfully obtained ; and, whether the order was so obtained
or not, may discharge him from custody when the plaintiff is cast in
the action or suit.

36. Whi1e a defendant is in custody, whether under an arrest
made heretofore or hereafter, the plaintiff', without having a judgment against the defendant, may file interrogatories to him in like
manner as might be done under the fourth section of chapter one
hundred and forty-one, if such judgment had been obtained and a
fieri facias thereon delivered to an officer. And the court wherein
the case is pending, or a judge or a commissioner thereof.-after reasonable notice to the plaintiff, or his attorney or counsel, may discharge the defendant from custody, unless interrogatories be filed
within such time as the said court, judge or commissioner may deem
reasonable; or, though interrogatories be filed, ruay discharge him
when proper answers thereto are filed and proper conveyance and
delivery made.

37. The officer making the arrest shall be the officer to whom the
-conveyance shall be made. The interrogatories, answers and report
of the commissioner shall be returned to the court in which the case
is pending, and filed in the p,apers of such case. And the said court
may make such order as it may deem right as to the sale and proper
application of the estate conveyed and delivered under the preceding
section,

2. All acts and parts of acts coming within the purview of this
act, and inconsistent therewith, are hereby repealed.

1. A defendant in an action brought against him for the recovery
of money, which he does not wish to defend, but which money is
claimed by a third person, or for the recovery of the possession of
personal property to which he makes no claim, but which is claimed
by a third person, may file his affidavit stating the facts in relation
thereto, and that he does not collude with such third party, but is
ready to pay the money claimed, or deliver- the property to the
owner thereof, as the court may direct, the court may thereupon,
make an order requiring such third party to appear and state the
nature of bis claim, and maintain or relinquish the same, and in the
meantime stay the proceedings in such action. If such third party
on being served with a copy of such order, shall not. appear, the court
may, on proof of the plaintiff's right, render judgment for him, and
declare such third party to be forever barred of any claim in respect
of the subject-matter, either against the plaintiff, or the original defendant, or his personal representative.
If such third party, on being so served, shall appear, the court shall allow him to make himself defendant in the action, and, either in said action or otherwise,
cause such issue or issues to be tried as it may prescribe, and may direct which party shall be considered the plaintiff in the issues; and
shall give judgment upon the verdict rendered, or, if a jury be
waived by the parties interested, shall determine their claims in a
summary way. The court may also make such order for the disposition of the money or property which is the subject-matter of the
action, pending the same, as to it may seem proper.

2. If any officer levy or is required to levy an execution er a warrant of distress on property, and a doubt shall arise whether the said
property is liable to such levy, he may give to the plaintiff, his agent,
or attorney at law, notice that an indemnifying bond is required in
the case. Bond may thereupon be given by any person, with good
security, payable to the officer, in a penalty equal to double the value
of the property, conditioned to indemnify him against all damages
which he may sustain in consequence of the seizure or sale of said
property, and to any claimant of said property all damages which
he may sustain in consequence of such seizure or sale; and also to
warrant and defend, to any purchaser of the property, such estate or
interest therein as is sold.

3. H such bond be not given within a reasonable time after such
notice, the officer may refuse to levy on such property, or restore it
to the person from whose possession it was taken, as the case may
be. If it be given, where there has been no levy, within a reasonable time, or after a levy, before the property is so restored, it shall
be returned within twenty days to the clerk's office of the circuit
court of the county in which such property may be and the claimant or purchaser of such property shall, after such bond is so returned, he barred of any action against the officer levying thereon,
provided the security therein be good at the time of taking it.
SUSPENDING BO.SD, .ETC:.

4. But the sale of any such property shall be suspended at the
instance of any claimant thereof who shall deliver to the officer
bond, with good security, in a penalty equal to double the value
thereof, payable to said officer, conditioned to pay to all persons who
may be injured by suspending the sale thereof, until the claim thereto can be adjusted, such damages as they may sustain by such suspension. Upon any such bond as is mentioned in this or the preceding section, suit may be prosecuted in the name of the officer,
for the benefit of the claimant, creditor, purchaser, or other person
injured, and such damages recovered in said snit as a jury may assess.
The same may be prosecuted, and execution had, in the name of such
officer when he is dead, in like manner as if he were alive.

5. When the property of the value of more than fifty dollars is
taken under a warrant of distress, or when property of any value is
taken under an execution issued by the clerk of a court, and any
person other than the party against whom the process issued, claims
such property, or the proceeds or value thereof, the circuit court of
the county in which the property is taken, or the judge thereof in
vacation, upon the application of the officer, where no indemifying
bond has been given, or if one has been given, on the application of
the person who claims such property and has given such suspending
bond as is mentioned in the next preceding section, may cause to appear before such court, as well the party issuing such process, as the
party making such claim; and such court may exercise, for the decision of their rights, all or any of the powers and authority prescribed in the first section of this chapter.

6. Such court; on the application of the party issuing said process, may cause to appear before it the party making such claim,
and may exercise the like powers and authority. In such case as
is mentioned in this or the preceding section, the court, where no
bond is given for the forthcoming of the property, or the judge
thereof in vacation, may, before a decision of the rights of the parties, make an order for the sale of the property, or any part thereof,
on such terms as the court or judge may deem advisable, and for
the proper application of the proceeds according to the said rights.
In any case before mentioned in this chapter, the court may make
all such rules and orders, and enter suchjudgment as to costs and all
other matters, as may be just and proper.

7. The sheriff or other officer levying a writ of fieri faeias or distress warrant on property, the sale of which is suspended under this
chapter at the instance of a claimant thereof, may, it such claimant
desire the property to remain in such possession as it was immediately before the levy, and if the case be one in which a bond for the
forthcoming of the property is not prohibited from being taken from
the debtor by the seventh section of chapter one hundred and fortytwo of this code, take from the claimant a bond, with sufficient
surety, payable to the creditor, with such recital as is required in a
bond taken from the debtor and with condition that the propertl
shall be forthcoming at such day and place of sale as may be therea ter lawfully appointed, whereupon, such property may be permitted
to remain at the risk of such claimant in such possession as it was
immediately before the levy; and the provisions of the said chapter
shall apply to such u bond in like manner as to a bond taken from
the debtor.

8. When property, the sale of which is indemnified, sells for more
than enough to satisfy the execution or distress warrant under which
it is taken, the surplus shall be paid by the officer into the court to
the office whereof the indemnifying bond is required to he returned
or as such court may direct. The said court may make such order
for the disposition thereof, either temporarily until the question as
to the title of the property sold is determined, or absolutely, as in
respect to the rights of those interested may seem to it proper.

1. Persons desiring to end any controversy, whether there he a
suit pending therefor or not, may submit the same to arbitration,
and agree that- such submission may he entered of record in any
court. Upon proof of such agreement out o( court, or by consent
of the parties given in court, in person or by counsel, it shall he entered in the proceedings of such court ; and thereupon a rule shall
be made, that the parties shall submit to the award which shall be
made in pursuance of such agreement. And when a pending
cause is submitted to arbitration, the defendant may make any
defense to the plaintiff's claim or demand, that he could make under
any proper plea filed in court, whether such plea has been tiled or
not, by giving to the plaintiff reasonable notice in writing of the
nature and character of his defense; and in a suit for any debt he
may at the trial before the arbitrators, proye and have allowed
against such debt, any payment or set-off, whether before that time
pleaded or not, or whether an account of set-off has before that time
been filed or not, which he may plead or file before the arbitrators
in such manner as to give the plaintiff notice of its nature, but not
otherwise. Although the claim of the plaintiff be jointly against
several persons and the set-off is of a debt, not to all, but only to a
part of them, this section shall extend to such set-off, if it appear
that the persons against whom such claim is, stand in the relation of
principal and surety, and the person entitled to the set-off is the
principal. And when the defendant is allowed to file and prove an
account of set- off' to the plaintiff's demand, the plaintiff shall be al ..
lowed to file and prove an account of counter set-off, and make such
other defense as he might have made had an original action been
brought npon such set-off; and upon the trial the arbitrators shall
ascertain the true state of indebtedness between the parties, and the
award shall be rendered accordingly.

2. Xo such submission, entered or agreed to be entered, of record,
in any court, shall be revocable by any party to such submission,
without the leave of such court; and such court may, from time to
time, enlarge the term within which an award is required to be made.

3. Upon the return of any such award, made under such an agreement, ( whether any previous record of the submission or a rule thereupon has been made or not), it shall be entered up as the judgment
or decree of the court, unless good cause be shown against it at the
first term after the parties have been summoned to show cause against
it. And the court shall make to such arbitrators such reasonable
allowance for thci r services as it may deem proper, to be taxed in
the costs of the suit or proceeding, when no provision is made for
the pay of the arbitrators in the arbitration agreement, or to be otherwise paid as the court may direct.

4. No such award shaJI be set aside, except for errors apparent on
its face, unless it appears to have been procured by corruption or
other undue means, or by mistake, or that there was partiality or
misbehaviour in the arbitrators, or any of them. But this section
shall not be construed to take away the power of courts of equity
over a wards.

5. Any personal representative of a decedent, guardian of an infant, committee of an insane person, or trustee, may file his petition
in the circuit court of the county in which he qualified or was appointed, asking permission from such court to submit to arbitration
any suit or matter of controversy touching the estate or property of
such decedent, infant, insane person, or in respect to which he is trustee. In which petition shall be stated the facts upon which the petioner seeks the permission of the court; the court may in its discretion grant or refuse the prayer of the petition. If the petition is
filed in good faith, and the petition is granted by the court, an order
showing that permission to arbitrate was granted shall be entered
on the chancery order book of the court, and the award made in any
such case shall be binding upon all the parties in interest, and shall
be entered as the judgment of the court in the same manner as other
submissions and awards are entered, unless set aside by the court.
If the petition is filed in good faith and there was no fault or neglect on the part of the fiduciary, he shall not be responsible for any
loss sustained by an award adverse tc the interests of bis ward, insane person or beneficiary under any such trust.

2. All acts and parts of acts coming within the purview of this
act, and inconsistent with its provisions, are hereby repealed.

1. When a writ of mandamus is issued, the return thereto shall
state, plainly and concisely, the matter of law or fact relied on in opposition to the complaint.

2. The complainant may thereupon demur to the return, or plead
specially thereto, or both.

3. The defendant may reply to, take issue on, or demur to the
pleas of the complainant.

4. If a verdict be found, or a judgment be rendered for the person suing out the writ, on demurrer or by nil died, or for want of a
replication or other pleading, he shall recover his costs, and such
damages as the jury may assess, and final judgment thereupon shall
be entered and enforced hy execution, as in other cases; and a peremptory mandamus shall be awarded without delay as if the return
to the writ had been adjudged insufficient.

5. If judgment he rendered for the defendant he shall recover
his costs.

6. A writ of quo uxirranio may be awarded and prosecuted in the
name of the state of West Virginia, at the instance of the attorney
general, or prosecuting attorney of any county in any of the following cases, viz:
Firsi. Against a corporation for a misuse or non-user of its corporate privileges and franchises, or tor the exercise of a privilege or
franchise not conferred upon it by law, or where a certificate of incorporation has been obtained by it for a fraudulent purpose, or for
a purpose not authorized by law.
Second. Against a person for the misuse or non-use of a privilege
and franchise conferred upon him by, or in the pursuance of law.
Third. Against any person or persons acting as a corporation,
without authority of law, and
Fourth, Against any person who shall intrude into or usurp any
public office. But no such writ shall be awarded or prosecuted
against any person now in office for any cause which would have
been available in support of a proceeding to contest the election of
such person to such office.

7. Whenever the attorney general or prosecuting attorney of any
county is satisfied that a ca .ise exists therefor he may, at his own instance, or at the relation of any pPrson interested apply by petition
to the circuit court of the county wherein the seat of government
is, or of the county wherein the cause for the issuing of such writ
arose, to have such writ issued, and shall state therein the reason
therefor. Whenever such writ is issued at the relation o( any person, the petition shall be to the circuit court of the county wherein
t:ho seat of government is, or of the county wherein the cause or ¥iy
part thereof, for the issuing such writ arose, as the relaters may
.Iect.

8. If, in the opinion of the court, the reasons so stated in the petition are sufficient in law, it shall award the said writ and the same
shall be signed by the judge of such court and attested by the clerk
thereof. But if such writ be awarded at the relation of any person
it shall not be issued until the relator shall give bond.with good security, to be approved by the court, in such penalty as the court shall
prescribe, with condition that the relator will pay all such costs and
expem,es as may be incurred by the state in the prosecution of such
writ in case the same shall not be recovered from and paid by the
defendant therein.

9. In any case in which a writ of quo warranto would lie, the attorney general or prosecuting attorney of any county, at his own
instance, or at the relation of any person interested, or any person
interested may, in the name of the state of West Virginia, apply
to any such court as is mentioned in the seventh section of this
chapter, for leave to file an information in the nature of a writ of
quo uxxrramio for any of the causes and against any of the corporations, officer, or persons mentioned in the sixth section of this chapter, and he shall, at the time of his application, present to the court
the information he propo~es to file. If, in the opinion of such court,
the matters stated in such information are sufficient in law to authorize the same to be filed, an order shall be made filing the same
and awarding a summons against the defendant named therein to
answer such information. But if the leave to file such information
be asked on the relation of any person, or by any person at his own
instance, the summons thereon shall not be issued by the clerk until
such relater or person shall give the bond and security required by
the next preceding section. A copy of every such information, if
not made out and filed therewith, shall be made out by the clerk,
and such copy shall be delivered to the officer to whom the summons is delivered to be served, and shall be served on the defendant or one of the defendants named in the summons.

10. Every such writ or summons shall be served as provided in chapter one hundred and twenty-one of this code, and if it
be against a corporation it shall be served on some of the persons
mentioned ins section seven and eight of chapter one hundred and
twenty-four of this code; and if service thereof cannot otherwise
be made upon any defendant named in such writ or summons, it may
be made by publication as prescribed in said last named chapter.

11. If the defendant named in such writ or information, fail to
appear after the service thereof as aforesaid, the court may hear proof
of the allegations of the petition or information, and if such allegasions be sustained, the court shall give judgment accordingly. But
if the service be made by publication, the defendant against whom
such judgment is rendered, upon giving bond and security as provided in section eight of this chapter, may have the judgment against
him set aside, and make such defense as he or it may have thereto. If
the defendant appear before the end of the term next after the service of summons, or thereafter before judgment is rendered against
him, he may demur or plead not guilty, or both, to such writ, or demur or answer in writing, or both, to such information, and every
allegation contained in such in formation which is not denied by such
answer shall be taken as true, and no proof thereof shall be required.

12. If uwn the trial of such writ or information the defendant
be found guilty, or not guilty, of any of the charges therein, the
verdict shall be "guilty," or "not guilty," as the case may be; but.
if he be found guilty as to a part of such charges only, the verdict
shall be guilty as to such charges, and shall particularly specify the
same, and as to the residue of such charges the verdict shall be •'not
guilty." Against a defendant so found guilty, the court shall give
such judgment as is appropriate and authorized by law, and for the
costs incurred in the prosecution of such writ or information, including an attorney's fee of not less than ten nor more than fifty dollars, to be fixed by the court.

13. If by the judgment of the court rendered as aforesaid, a corporation, or pretended corporation, be dissolved, the court may appoint a receiver of the property of such corporation or pretended
corporation, as provided in section twenty-eight of chapter one hundred and thirty-three of this code, and may make all such other orders in relation thereto as may be necessary for:the preservation and
safe-keeping of such property.

1. The writ of prohibition shall lie as matter of ~right, in all
cases of usurpation and abuse of power, when the inferior court has
not jurisdiction of the subject matter in controversy, or, having
such jurisdiction, exceeds its legitimate powers. It shall not be necessary to file a suggestion on any application for a writ of prohibition, hut the same may be applied tor on affidavit only; and in case
the party applying be directed to declare in prohibition, before writ
issued, the declaration shall be expressed to be on behalf of such
party only, and not on the behalf of the party and of the state, and
shall contain and set forth in a concise manner, so much only of the
proceeding as may be necessary to show the ground of the application, without alleging the delivery of a writ or any contempt, and
shall conclude by praying that a writ of prohibition may issue; to
which declaration the defendant may demur, or plead such matters,
by way of traverse, or otherwise, as mny be proper to show that the
writ ought not to issue, and conclude by praying that such writ may·
not issue; and judgment shall be given that the writ of prohibition
do or do not issue, as justice may require; and the party in whose
favor such judgment is given, whether on verdict or otherwise, shall
recover his costs; and in case a verdict shall be given for the plaintiff, the jury may assess damages, for which judgment shall also be
given, but such assessment shall not be necessary to entitle the plaintiff to costs. A rule to show cause may be issued in vacation by a
judge of a circuit court, or of the supreme court of appeals.

2. In every case, matter or proceeding in which a certiorari might
be issued as the law heretofore has been, and in every case, matter or
proceeding before a county court, council of a city, town or village,
justice or other inferior tribunal, the record or proceeding may, after
a judgment or final order therein, or after any judgment or order
therein abridging the freedom of a person, be removed by writ of
certiorari to the circuit court of the county in which such judgment
was rendered, or order made; except in cases where authority is or
may be given by law to the circuit court, or the judge thereof in
vacation, to review such judgment or order on motion, or 011 appeal,
writ of error or eupereedeas, or in some manner other than upon certiorari, but no certiorari shall be issued in cases of judgments rendered by justices in civil actions for not exceeding fifteen dollars,
exclusive of interest and costs.

3. In every case. matter or proceeding before a county court,
council, justice or other inferior tribunal, in which a writ of certiorari
would lie according to the provisions of the preceding section, the
majority of the commissioners composing the court, or the justice, or
the officer or officers presiding over such council or other inferior
tribunal, shall upon request of either party in a civil case, matter or
proceeding, or of the defendant in a criminal case, matter or proceeding, certify the evidence, if any, which may have been heard, and
sign bills of exceptions setting forth any rulings or orders which
may not otherwise appear of record. Such certificate of evidence
and bills of exceptions shall be part ot the record, and as such be
removed and returned to the circuit court. Upon the hearing, such
circuit court shall, in addition to determining such questions as might
have been determined upon a certiorari L~ iha law heretofoee was,
review such judgment, order or proceedings of the county csurt,
council, justice or other inferior tribunal, upon the merits, determine
all questions arising on the law and evidence, and render such judgment or ~ake such order upon the whole matter as law and justice
may reqmre.

4. Such writs may be awarded by the judge of such circuit court
in vacation, and in case of an order ahridging the freedom of a person, may be returned and heard and determined by the judge of such
circuit court in vacation, if reasonable notice of such hearing shall
have been given the other party, and such court or judge may grant
a writ of habeas co,·pus in aid of such certiorari.

5. A writ of certiorari shall not operate to suspend the judgment
or order, removed thereby, or proceedings on such judgment or order, except in a criminal case, until the party applying therefor, or
some one for him, shall file in the office of the clerk of the circuit
court a bond payable to the state of West Virginia, with security approved by such clerk, in a penalty to be prescribed by the court or
judge awarding the writ, conditioned to perform and satisfy such
judgment or order as may be rendered or made by the circuit court,
and to pay all such damages and costs as may be awarded to any
party by such court or judge, and with any further condition which
such court or judge may prescribe.

6. When such bond as is mentioned in the next preceding section
is filed, the writ of certiorari shall operate to stay all proceedings
upon the judgment or order removed by the writ, and all further
proceedings before the county court, justice or other inferior tribunal
in the case, matter or proceeding in which it was awarded, until the
final determination of the matter by the circuit court, except as to
any order or sentence abridging the freedom of a person; but the
court or judge may let such party to bail, as in other cases.

1. (Acts 1883: p. 9.) The writ of habeas corp1t8 ad subjieiendum
shall be granted forthwith by the supreme court of appeals, or any
circuit court, or any judge of either court, in vacation, to any person who shall, by himself, or by some one in his behalf apply for
the same by petition, showing by affidavit or other evidence, probable cause to believe that he is detained without lawful authority.

2. The writ shall be directed to the person in whose custody the
petitioner is detained, and made returnable as soon as may be before the court or judge ordering the same, or any other of the said
courts or judges.
;t The court or ju<lge granting the writ may previously require
bond with security in a reasonable penalty, payable to the person to
whom the writ is directed, with condition that the petitioner will not
escape by the way, fAd tor the payment of such costs and charges
as may be awarded agaiMt him. It shall be filed with the other
proceedings on the writ and mar he sued on for the benefit of any
per80n injured by the breach of its condition.

4. The writ shall be served on the person to whom it is directed,
or in his absence from the place where the petitioner is confined, on
the person having the immediate custody of him.

5. If any person on whom such writ is served, shall, in disobedience to such writ, fail to bring the body of the petitioner, with a return of the cause of his detention, before a court or judge before
whom the writ is returnable, for three days after such service, or
when he has to bring the prisoner more than twenty miles, for so
many more clays as is equal to one day for every twenty miles of
such further distance, he shall forfeit to the petitioner three hundred dollars.

6. The court or judge before whom the petitioner is brought, after
hearing the matter both upon the return and any other evidence,
shall either discharge or remand him, or admit him to bail, as may
be proper, and adjudge the costs of the proceedings, including the
charge for transporting the prisoner, to be paid as shall seem to be
right.

7. At the direction of the court or judge • .the affidavits of witnesses taken by either party on reasonable notice to the other, may
be read as evidence.

8. (Acts 1883, p. 9.) All the material facts proved shall, when it
is required by either party, be made a part of the proceedings, which,
when they are had in vacation, shall be signed by the judge and certified to the clerk .of the circuit court of the county in which the judgment is rendered, and be entered by him among the records of that
court.

9. The judge issuing any such writ in vacation, or the judge before whom it is tried, shall have the same power to enforce obedience to the writ, to compel the attendance of witnesses or to punish
contempt of his authority as a court has; and his judgment on the
trial of the writ when entered of record as aforesaid shall be considered and be enforced as if it were a judgment of the court among
whose records it is entered.

10. Any such judgment entered of record shall be conclusive, nuless the same be reversed, except that the petitioner shall not be precluded from bringing the same watter in question in an action for
false imprisonment.

11. If during the recess of the supreme court of appeals, the
governor or the president of the said court should think the immediate revision of any such judgment to be proper, he may summon
the court for that purpose to meet on any day to be fixed by him.
I~. When the prisoner is remanded the execution of the judgment shall not be suspended by the writ of error, or suspended for
the purpose of applying for one. But where he is ordered to be
discharged and the execution of the judgment suspended for the purpose of applying for a writ of error, the court dr judge making such
suspending order may in their discretion, admit the prisoner to bail
until the expiration of the time allowed
applying for the writ of
error, or in case the writ of error be allowed, until the decision of
the supreme court of appeals thereon is duly certified.

13. The writ de homine replegiando is abolished.

14. (Acts 1883, p. 9.) Writs of habeas corpus ad testificandum
may be granted by uny circuit court, or any judge thereof, in vacation, in the same manner and under the same conditions and provisions as are prescribed by this chapter as to granting the writ of ha..
beas corpu.~ad eubjiciendum, as far as the same are applicable.

1. The jndicial circuits, as prescribed by section thirteen of article
eight of the constitution of this state as amended, shall be and remain as so prescribed until re-arranged by the legislature in pursuance of section fourteen of said article eight.
JURISDICTION OF CIRCUIT COURT~

2. The circuit court shall have the supervision and control of all
proceedings before justices and other inferior tribunals, by mandamus
prohibition and certiorari. They shall, except in cases confined exelusively by the constitution to some other tribunal, have original
and general jurisdiction of all matters at law, where the amount in
controversy, exclusive of interest, exceeds fifty dollars; of all cases
of habeas corpus, mandamas, quo uxirrardo and prohibition; and of
all cases in equity, and of all crimes and misdemeanors. They shall
have appellate jurisdiction in all cases, civil and caiminal, where an
appeal, writ of error or supersedeas may bP allowed to the judgment
or proceedings of any inferior tribunal. They shall also have such
other jurisdiction, whether supervisory, original, appellate or concurrent, as is or may be prescribed by law.

3. Ther- shall be at least three terms of the circuit court every
year in each county, commencing at such times as may be prescribed
by law. A judge of one circuit may, by arrangement with thejudge
of any other circuit, or when the office of judge in any other circuit
is vacant, hold the courts in any such circuit.
ADJO'l"R~ED TERMS.

4. If any term of a circuit court is about to end without dispatching all its business, the judge thereof may, by an order entered of
record, adjourn the holding of such court to any future day on which
he is not required by law to hold a court in some other county ; and
all causes on the docket of said court, and not otherwise disposed of,
shall stand continued to such adjourned day. The court may, in its
discretion, require the jury summoned to attend such term, to attend
as such on the adjourned day, or may require a new jury to be drawn
and summoned in the manner required by law; and all witnesses
summoned to attend in causes so continued to such adjourned term,
are required to attend said term without being again summoned.
All judgments, orders and decrees, rendered and made by such court
before or during the day on which said court adjourns to such future
day, as aforesaid, shall have the same force and effect in all respects
as if said court had finally adjourned on that day.

5. If any term of such court has ended without dispatching all
its business, or if there be a failure to hold any term, the judge of
the circuit may, by a warrant directed to the clerk, appoint a special
term thereof and prescribe in such warrant whether a grand or petit
jury is to be summoned to attend such term. The clerk shall enter
the warrant in the order book of the court and inform the prosecuting attorney and the sheriff of such appointment, post a copy of the
warrant at the door ot the court house, and issue all proper process
returnable to such special term ; and the sheriff shall execute such
process, and summon a grand or petit jury, or both, as may be prescribed in the warrant.

6. Whenever any judge of a circuit court shall have appointed a
special term of any circuit court in the manner directed by the preceding section, and shall afterwards ascertain that he cannot hold
the said special term on the day appointed for it, he may, by warrant under his hand, directed to the clerk of the court, adjourn it to
such other day as he may deem proper. Such warrant shall he transmitted by the judge to the clerk, who shall immediately enter the
said warrant in the order book of the court, and as to the said special
term thereafter to be held under the said continuance, proceed iu
all other respects in the manner directed by the section aforesaid.

7. Whenever th~ situation of a prisoner confined in jail for trial
in a circuit court makes it proper that his case should be disposed of
before the next regular term thereof, the judge of such court may
appoint a special term to be holden for the trial of the case, in the
same manner as if the same had stood for trial at the uext preceding
term, and the court had adjourned without disposing thereof.

8. Any cause, civil or criminal, and any motion or proceeding
ready for trial or bearing, may be tried, heard and determined at any
such special term, the same as if it were a regular ter.m of such court.
Every such special term may be held by the judge of the circuit,
or, if he be dead or absent, by nny other circuit judge who may be
present; and it may be held part of its session by one judge and
part by another; and such special terms may be adjourned from time
to time during the intervals between the regular terms as the judge
may deem necessary for the dispatch of the business of the court.

9. Each circuit judge, during his continuance in office, shall reside in the circuit for which he was elected.

10. All orders and decrees made by a judge out of court in a
cause pending in court shall he certified by him to the clerk of the
court in which the same is pending, and be entered by such clerk in
the proper order book.

11. When for any cause the judge of a circuit court shall fail to
attend and hold the same, tither at the commencement of the term,
whether regular, acijourned or special, or at any time before its adjournment; or if he be in attendance and cannot properly preside
at the trial of any cause therein, the attorneys present and practicing in said court may elect a judge by ballot to hold said court during the absence of the judge, or for the trial of the cause ih which
the judge of said court cannot preside. The clerk of the court shall
hold said election, declare the result thereof, and enter the same of
record. Provided, however, that the parties or their attorneys, in
any case in which the judge of the court cannot properly preside at
the trial thereof, may agree upon a judge to try or hear and determine the same, which agreement shall be entered of record in the
proper order book of the court, and in such case no election of a
judge to try or hear and determine the case shall be held. No person who is counsel or attorney in the case to which the disability of
the judge relates shall vote in the election of a judge to try the
same; nor shall any person who has not been admitted to practice as
an attorney in some court in this state be elected as such judge.
The judge so elected or agreed upon shall, before proceeding to act,
take an oath that he will faithfully and impartially perform the duties of u judge of such court so long as he shall continue to act as
such ; and, if he be elected or agreed upon to tr, or hear and determine a particular case as hereinbefore provided for, he shall take the
further oath that he is not interested as counsel or attorney, or otherwise, in the cause to be tried or heard and determined by him.

12. Every judge so elected or agreed upon shall have and possess
the same powers, and perform the same duties, in all respects, as the
regularly elected judge of such court, during the time he shall act in
pursuance of such election or agreement. If there be any cause
pending in such court, in the trial or hearing of which the judge
elected as aforesaid cannot properly preside, another judge for the
trial or hearing thereof may be elected or agreed upon as aforesaid.

13. The judge so elected or appointed shall receive tor his services, while sitting as such judge, ten dollars per day, to be certified
by the court and paid out of the state treasury. This and the two
next preceding sections shall apply as well to criminal as to civil
causes.

14. (Acts 1882, p. 485.) In any case in which an appeal lies under section forty-seven of chapter thirty-nine of this code, as
amended, on behalf of a party to a controversy in a county court,
such party may present to the circuit court of the county in which
the judgment, order or proceeding complained of was rendered,
made or had, or in the vacation of such court to any judge of a circuit court, the petition of such party for an appeal. Such petition
must be presented within one year after such judgment, order or
proceeding was rendered, had or made. With such petition there
shall be a transcript of the record and proceedings in the county
court, and the petition shall assign errors. If the appeal be allowed,
the order of allowance shall specify what bond, if any, is required,
before such appeal "shall take effect, and the papers shall be filed
with the clerk of the circuit court, first mentioned in this section.
A copy of the order of allowance shall be served npon the opposite
party, and upon proper return of such service and the execution of
the required bond the appeal shall be docketed and proceeded with
in the circuit court. If the petition be refused the refusal shall be
endorsed on the petition which may then be presented to a judge of
the court of appeals; if the matter be one in which an appeal would
be to that court from a judgment of the circuit court affirming the
action of the county court, such judge may in such case allow or refuse the appeal, and in case of allowance by him, the like proceedings shall be had as if the allowauce was by a circuit judge. After
the decision of the appeal by the circuit court the cause or matter
shall be remanded to the county court, or be retained in the circuit
court and there proceeded with as the circuit court may determine
and order.

2. (ib.) All acts and parts of acts coming within the purview of
this chapter, and inconsistent therewith, are hereby repealed.

1. The supreme court of appeals shall consist of four judges;
elected and qualified according to the constitution and laws; any
three of whom shall be a quorum.

2. They shall designate one of their body to be the president of
said court. In the absence of the president any other judge designated by the judges present shall act as president.

3. (Acts 1883, p. 5.) Three sessions of the supreme court of appeals shall be held every year; one in Charleston, in the county of
Kanawha, commencing on the second Wednesday in January; one
in Wheeling, in the county of Ohio, commencing on the first Wednesday in June, and one in Charlestown, in the county of Jefferson,
commencing on the first Wednesday in September; and continue until the business is dispatched.

4. The original jurisdiction of the supreme court of appeals, shall
extend to cases of habeas corpus, mandamus, and prohibition.
The
appellate jurisdiction shall extend to civil cases when the matter in
controversy, excluslve of costs, is of greater value or amount than
one hundred dollars; in controversies concerning the title or boundaries of land, the probate of wills, the appointment or qualification
of a personal representative, guardian, committe€ or curator; or
concerning a mill, road, way, ferry or landing; or the right of a
corporation or county to levy tol1s or taxes; and also in cases of
quo warranto, habeas corpns, mandamus, certiorari and prohibition,
and in cases involving freedom or the constitutionality of a law. It
shall have appellate jurisdiction in criminal cases, where there has
been conviction for felony or misdemeanor in a circuit court, and
where a conviction has been had in anv inferior court and been affirmed in a circuit court, and in cases relating to the public revenue
.the right of appeal shall belong to the state, as well as the defendant,
and such other appellate jurisdiction, in both civil an<l crimina
cases, us may be prescribed by law.

4. (See Acts 1879, ch. 16, as follows:) That the supreme court
of appeals may review and re-hear any cases decided by said court at
the next succeeding term so far as to allow the correction of any
clerical error in any decree or judgment pronounced by said court,
or where the court on its own motion may desire to re-hear and correct such decree or judgment.
But no argument shall be heard on
such motion to re-hear unless requested by said court.]

5. The supreme court of appeals, or judges thereot in vacation,
may appoint a clerk who shall give bond as required by chapter ten
of this code. They may also appoint a crier and messenger for each
place of holding the said court. All of which said officers shall be
removable at the pleasure of said court or judges. Vacancies in the
office of clerk occurring during vacation may be filled by appointment in writing, made by the judges of said court or any three of
them.

6. It shall be the duty of the clerk of the supreme court of appeals to attend in persoP, or by deputy, all the sessions of the said
court, to obey its orders and directions in term time, and in vacation to take care of and preserve in an office, kept for the purpose,
all the records and papers of said court, and to perform such other
duties as may be required of him hy the said court, or which shall
be prescribed by law.

7. The crier of the court of appeals shall attend the sessions of the
court at the place for which he is appointed; shall keep order in the
court and have its hall kept constantly clean, ventillated and supplied with fire and water when necessary; obey the orders and di-
a?t~ority, for ~hich he shall be allowed the sum of four dollars per
diem, to be paid oat of the state treasury upon the certificate of the
court.

8. The messenger of the said supreme court of appeals shall constantly attend the sessions of the said court at the place for which
he is appointed, and obey its orders and directions, for which he
shall be allowed three dollars per diem, to be paid out of the state
treasury upon the certificate of the court.

9. The state shall be divided into three judicial grand divisions,
as follows: The first grand division shall consist of the counties
composing the first, second, third, fourth and fifth judicial circuits,
of Gilmer and Calhoun of the sixth judicial circuit, and Upshur and
Lewis of the eleventh judicial circuit. The second grand division
shall consist of the counties composing the seventh, eighth, ninth
and tenth judicial circuits, of Clay, Jackson and Roane of the sixth
judicial circuit, and of Braxton, Nicholas and Webster the eleventh
judicial circuit. The third grand division shall consist of the counties composing the twelfth and thirteenth judicial circuits. Each·
case shall be heard and in its own grand division, except by consent
of parties, or their counsel, in writing, or unless the parties desiring
the hearing shall have given written notice of at least thirty days
before the commencement of the term to the opposite party, or his
counsel, of his intention to insist on a hearing, when the same may
be heard and determined out of its grand division. The mode of
docketing and proceeding in Haid causes in the supreme court of appeals is regulated by chapter one hundred and thirty-five of this
code.

10. Special terms of the supreme court of appeals may be held for
the trial and decision of causes at any of the places now designated
1,y law for holding the regular terms of said court, or which may
hereafter be designated by law for holding such regular terms, at
such time or place as the said court may designate, by an order entered on its record at a regular term of said court. And the said
court by such order made at any regular term in one grand judicial
division, may order and direct such special term to be held in the
same or any other judicial grand division; and said court may at any.
special term, authorised by this chapter, decide any cause which may
have been heard at a previous regular or special .term.

11. Said court may at any regular or special term, adjourn from
day to day, or from time to time, as the court mny order, until its
close.

12. The judges of said court, or a majority of such judges, may,
by warrant signed by them, directed to the clerk of said court, appoint a special term of said court to be held for the trial and decision of causes, at any of the places now designated by .law for hold-
ing the regular terms of said court, or which may' hereafter be designated by law for holding such regular term of said court, The
clerk of said court shall enter the said warrant in the order book of
.the court.

13. At any special term of said court, any cause, the record of
which has been previously printed may, iu the discretion of said
court, be heard and decided by consent of parties or their counsel,
entered of record, or upon at least thirty days notice in writing,
given hy the parties desiring the hearing to the opposite party or his
counsel, of his intention to insist on a hearing, when the same may,
in the discretion of the court, be heard and determined within or
without its grand division.

14. The said court may, at. any regular or special term, decide
any cause or proceeding, which may have been previously heard by
.the court at any regular or special term thereof.

2. All acts and parts of acts coming within the purview of this
!let, and inconsistent therewith, are hereby repealed.

1. (Acts 1882, P: 92.) When any river or water course lies between
any counties in this state, the circuit. and county courts and justices
for the counties on each side respectively shall have concurreut jucrisdiction over so much thereof as is opposite to said counties. And
the circuit and county courts and justices for counties lying- on the
waters bounding the state shall hove jurisdiction respectively over
such waters opposite said counties, so for as the jurisdiction of this
state extends.

2. The supreme court of appeals and circuit and county courts
may af any time adjourn from day to day until the business is dispatched, or until the end of its term.

3. The supreme court of appeals may, from time to time, prescribe the forms of writs and other proces.~, and make general reg.ulations for the practice in such court.

4. (Acts 1882, P 92.) The proceedings of every court shall be
-entered in a book and read in open court by the clerk of the court.
The proceedings of each day shaJl be drawn up at large and read
the next day, immediately after the court is opened, and after being
read, and corrected where it is necessary, shaJl be signed by the
judge or presiding officer before the transaction of any other business, except those of the last <lay of the term and of the day on
which the court may adjourn to a future day: as prescribed in chapiel' one hundred and twelve of this code, which shall be drawn up
and read, corrected where it is necessary, and signed by the said
judge or officer on the same day.

5. The conrt of appeals shall not be attended by any sheriff, but
each circuit court and county court shall be attended by the sheriff
of the county in which it is held, who shall act as the officer thereof.

6. Every circuit court and county court for any county shall be
hel<l at the court house of such county, except where some other
place is prescribed by law or lawfully appointed. When the court
house of a county is not in a condition to be occupied, such courts
shall hold their sessions at such places as may be appointed by order
of the county court. A copy of such order or warrant shall be
posted by the clerk of the county court at the front door of his ofnee, at the court house door and at the place so appointed.

7. Whenever, by reason of the destruction of any building in
which courts are appointed to be held, or by reason of the place of
session being in possession of, or threatened by a public enemy, or
infected with contagious disease, it shall seem to the governor necessary, he shall, by proclamation, appoint a place at which such
courts shall be held, so long as such reason may continue, and, when
the circumstances require it, may postpone the time for holding the
courts.

8. (Ac1s 1882, p. 92.) No such place of session for a circuit or a
county court shall be without the limits of the county in which it
is to be held; and when such place is appointed because of the destruction of the building in which the supreme court of appeals was
held, the new place of session shall be within the same town with
the old.

9. A copy of such proclamation shall be sent to the clerk, and to
each of the judges of any such supreme court of appeals and circuit courts, and the president of any such county court.

10. Though a court be not held on the first day of a term, it may
nevertheless be opened on any subsequent· day ;: Provided, in the
case of a circuit or county court, the same be done before four
o'clock in the afternoon of the third day. If, after a court is opened
it fail to sit on any day, it may nevertheless sit on any subsequent
day of the term; Provided, in the case of a circuit or county court
there be not more than three consecutive days of such failure.

11. When the place of holding any court, or the day for commencing any term is changed, or when a court fails to sit on any
day appointed for it, or to which it may have adjourned, there shall
be no discontinuance, but every notice, recognizance or process, taken or returnable to the day on which the failure occurred, or to
any day between that day and the next that the court may sit, or to
the day and place as it was before such change, and all matters
ready for the court to act upon if it had been held on any such day,
shall be in the same condition and have the same effect as if given,
taken or returnable, or continued, to the substituted term or place,
or to the next day of the same term that the court may sit, or to the
next court in course, as the case may be.

12. A11 causes upon the docket of any court, and all other matters ready for its decision which shall not have been determined before the end of a term, whether regular, adjourned or special, shall,
without any order of continuance, stand continued until the next
term.

13. This act shall be in force and take effect on the thirty-first
day of December, 1872.

1. For every court without one, the governor shall provide a seal
to be deposited with the clerk ot the said court.

2. Until provided with an official seal, every clerk of such court
may use his private seal or scroll by way of seal, in cases where
the use of the seal is required by law or usage; and whenever so
used his attestation of the instrument, record or copy to which it is
annexed shall set forth the fact that he is not provided with an official seal, and shall have the same force and effect as if an official
seal was annexed.

3. This act shall take effect and be in force on the thirty-first day
of December, 1872.

3. (See Acts 1872-3, ch. 232 as follows e) 1. All claims required by law to be allowed by any court and payable out of the
state treasury, shall have the seal of the court allowing or authorizing the payment of the same, affixed by the clerk of Ruch court to
his certificate of its allowance; and no such claim shall be audited
and paid by the auditor unless the seal of such court be thereto attached as aforesaid.

2. No tax or fee shall be charged by the clerk for fixing his seal
to the certificate referred to in this act.

3. This act shall take effect and be in force on and after the thirtieth day after its passage.]

1. A11 male persons who are twenty-one years of age, and not
over sixty, and who are citizens of this state, shall be liable to serve
as jurors, except as hereinafter provided.

2. The governor of the state, practicing attorneys and physicians,
officers of any court, all telegraph operators actually engaged as such
in any office in this state, and all persons mentioned in the second
and fourth sections of chapter nineteen of this code as exempted from
military duty, (except school commissioners, persons exempted under the second section of chapter nineteen of this code by reason of
having relatives dependent upon them for support, .or in the military service of the United States, or of the state, officers of the
militia, who resign their commissions after serving seven years successively, and officers and members of a uniformed and armed volunteer company, who shall have served three years,) shall be exempted from serving on juries.

3. The county court of each county shall, at the levy term thereof,
annually, and at any other time when required by the circuit court
of such county, prepare a list of such inhabitants of the county, not
exempted as aforesaid, as they shall think well qualified to serve as
jurors, being persons of sound judgment and free from legal exception, which list shall include at least twenty persons for every thousand inhabitants in such county, but in no case shall such list include a less number than one hundred persons. But the name of no
person shall be put on such list who may have requested the court,
or any member thereof, by himself or another person, to have his
name placed on such list.

4. The list so prepared shall be delivered to the clerk of the said
county court, or other court or tribunal adopted in lieu of a county
court, to be by him safely kept, subject only to the inspection of the
circuit or county court, or of the clerk of the circuit court, or a justice
of the peace, as hereinafter prescribed, and the circuit or county
court may strike from such list the name of any person who has
been convicted of any scandalous offense, or been guilty of any gross
immorality.

5. At the time such list is made out, the county court shall also
cause all the names upon the same to be fairly written, each on a
separate paper or ballot, and shall fold or roll up the ballots so as
to resemble each other .as nearly as may be, and so that the name
written thereon shall not be visible on the outside, and shall deposit
the ballots in a secure box, to be prepared for the purpose, which
shall be safely kept by the clerk, and shall be opened only by the order of the county court, or as hereinafter prescribed.

6. All jurors required for the trial of cases in any circuit court, including cases of felony, shall.be selected by drawing ballots from the
said box in the manner prescribed in this chapter, and the persons
whose names are written on the ballots so drawn shall be returned to
serve as jurors.

7. The circuit court of any county by order entered of record, or
the judge of any such court in vacation, by written order to the clerk
of such court, at least twenty days before the term, may dispense
with a jury for one of the regular terms, and in such case no »enire
faeia« shall be issued, and no jury summoned for such term until it
is ordered by the court or the judge thereof in vacation. The clerk of
every circuit ccurt shall, at least thirty days before any term of such
court at which a jury may be wanted, issue a writ of venfrc facia»
for thirty jurors, unless the court shaJl order a greater or less number, in which event the writ shall issue for such other number.
Such writ sha1l require the attendance of the jurors on the first day
of the court, or on such other day thereof as the court· or judge may
order. It, in the opinion of any court, a lesser number of jurors
than thirty will usually suffice for the convenient dispatch of the
business thereof, it shall he the duty of such court to enter such
opinion of record, expressing therein the number of jurors proper
to be summoned; an<l thereafter, until otherwise directed, the venire
facias shall not require a greater number to be summoned to attend
such court.

8. At the same time the clerk shall issue a summons in the name
of the state, requiring the clerk of the county court to attend at the
clerk's office of' the county court of such county on a day named in
such summons, which shall not he less than twenty days before such
term, for the purpose of drawing the balJots for the number of jurors mentioned in said writ. If the clerk of the county court be
also clerk of the circuit court, the summons shall require a justice of
the peace to attend for such purpose.

9. The writ of venire f 'aeiae and summons shall be delivered to
the sheriff, or other officer, who shall serve the summons on the clerk
of the connty court, or a justice of the peace, as the case may be;
and it shall be the duty of such clerk or iustice of the peace to attend on the day designated in the summons at the clerk's office of
the county court of the county, and in the presence of the c1erk of
the circuit court to cause the proper number of jurors to be drawn
from the box, and a list thereof to be delivered to the officer serving the summons.

10. If the clerk of the county court or justice fail to attend as required by said summons, such jurors shall be drawn by the clerk of
the circuit court, whose duty it shall be to place the list thereof in
the hands of the sheriff or other officer. And it shall be the duty
of such officer, at least three days before the time when the jurors
are required to attend, to summons each person who is drawn, to attend the sitting of the court at. the time and place mentioned in the
writ, and make a due return thereof, and o( the summons aforesaid,
to such court at the opening thereof.

11. When jurors are to be drawn as aforesaid the baJlots in the
jury box shall be shaken and mixed together, and the clerk of the
county court, or justice, or, in case of the failure of both to attend,
the el erk of the circuit court shall openly draw therefrom as many
ballots (without inspecting the names written on any until the proper
number is drawn.) as shall be equal to the number of jurors required;
and if any person whose name is so drawn is unable by reason of
sickness, absence from home, or other cause, to attend as a juror, his
name shall, at the conclusion of such draft, be returned into the box;
Qr if h~ is exempted by law, or his name has been struck from the
jury list, the ballot shall be destroyed, and another shall be drawn
in its stead.

12. When any person isdrawn and returned to serve as aforesaid,
the clerk of the county court, or justice, or in his absence, the clerk
of the circuit court shall cause to be endorsed on the ballot contain..
ing his name the word "drawn,'' and shall cause it to he placed in
another box to be kept tor the purpose in the custody of the clerk
the county court, and only opened as hereinafter prescribed, and the
date of the draft shall be entered on the list of jurors opposite the·
name of the person so drawn.

13. When all the ballots in the jury box have been destroyed or
placed in the box for the ballots marked "drawn," except such as
contain the names of those who, for the reasons aforesaid, are unable
to attend, the last mentioned box shall be opened in the presence of
the officers attending to draw jurors, and the ballots therein replaced
in the jury-box, from which drafts shall thereafter again be made·
in the manner herein prescribed.

14. Nothing contained in the preceding sections shall prevent
any court in term time from requiring other jurors to be· drawn in
like manner, or requiring other jurors, whether so drawn or not, to
be summoned whenever it shall be found necessary for the convenient dispatch of business, in which case the jurors so summoned shall
he required to attend on such days as the court shall direct.

15. If any person duly summoned to attend as a juror in any
court shall neglect to attend, without any sufficient excuse, he shall
pay a fine not exceeding twenty dollars, which shall be imposed by
the court.

16. Any court, when not incompatible with the proper dispatch
of its business, shall have power to discharge persons summoned as
jurors therein, or dispense with their attendance, on any day of its
sitting.

17. Either party in any action or suit may, and the court shall,.
on motion of such party, examine on oath any person who is called
as a juror therein, to know whether he is a qualified juror, or is related to either party; or has any interest in the cause, or is sensible
of any bias or prejudice therein; and the party objecting to the ju-·
ror mav introduce any other competent evidence in support of the
objection; and if it shall appear to the court that such person is not
a qualified juror, or does not stand indifferent in the cause, another
shall be called and placed in his stead for the trial of that cause.
And in every case the plaintiff and defendant may each challenge
four jurors peremptorily. In any suit or proceeding in which a
county, district, school district, or municipal corporation is interested, or is a party, no person shall be incompetent as a juror because he is an inhabitant or tax-payer of such county, district, school
district, or municipal corporation; Provided, however, that in any
case where a municipal corporation is interested, or is a party, the
court, upon motion of either party to the suit, made either on the
first day of the term of the court, or at any other time, not less than
five days before the day set for the trial, may order jurors to be summoned, none of whom are citizens or tax-payers of such municipal
corporation ; and if it be under circumstances requiring the issuing
of a venire faeias, the officers charged with the duty of drawing the
names from the box shall draw the number required, exclusive of
those who are known to be citizens or tax-payers of such municipal
corporation. Any court of limited jurisdiction heretofore established, or that may be hereafter established within any incorporated
city, town or village, shall have power in any such suit or proceeding, to require the summoning and attendance of jurors from the
county who are not citizens of the municipal corporation. Either
the sheriff of the county or the officer of such court who is authorized to execute its writs in other oases, may summon such
jurors.

18. No exception shall be allowed against a juror after he is
sworn upon the jury, on account of his age or other legal disability, unless by leave of court.

19. No irregularity in any writ of oenire facias, or in the drawing,
summoning, or impaneling of jurors, shall be sufficient to set aside
a verdict, unless the party making the objection was injured by the
irregularity, or unless the objection was made before the swearing of
the jury.

20. When by neglect or any of the duties required in this chapter to be performed by any of the officers or persons herein mentioned, the jurors to be returned shall not be duly drawn and summoned to attend the court, any person guilty of such neglect shall
pay a fine not exceeding twenty dollars, to be imposed by the court.

21. Any court may allow a special jury in any civil case to be
formed in the following manner, viz: The court shall direct the
sheriff to form a panel of twenty qualified jurors, whom he shall
summon and who are free r'rom just cause of exception, from which
sixteen shall be chosen by } .it ; the parties thereupon beginning with
the plaintiff's attorney, shall alternately strike off one, until the
number be reduced to twelve; which number shall complete the jury
for the trial of the case.
PAY OF JURORS•

22. Every person who shall serve upon a grand jury shall be entitled to receive one dollar and fifty cents for each day he may so
serve, and the same mileage allowed to witnesses, to be paid out of
the county treasury; but he sha11 not in any case, receive more than
six dollars, exclusive of mileage, for services rendered at one term
of the court .

23. Any person summoned as aforesaid by virtue of a venire faeias, or otherwise, and actually attending upon the court, or attending at the court house at the time summoned, whether he be called
to serve on a jury or not, shall for each day he so.attends, be entitled to receive one dollar and fifty cents, and the same mileage allowed to witnesses, to be paid out of the county treasury; provided,
that for any day that any person shall be sworn to serve on a case of
felony, he shall for that day be paid two dollars out of the state treasury; that for each day on which he shall not actually attend at the
court house he shall receive nothing, and that mileage shall be allowed but ouce during the term. There shall be taxed in the costs
against any person against whom a judgment on the verdict of a jury
may be rendered in a case of misdemeanor, and against any person
against whom judgment on the verdict of a jury may he rendered
in a civil action, and against any person on whose motion the verdict or a jury is set aside and a new trial granted, six dollars for
jury costs, which, wheu collected from the party shall be paid into
the county treasury. All moneys so received by the clerk shall be
forthwith paid by him to the sheriff, and the clerk and his sureties
shall be liable therefor on his official bond, as for other moneys
coming to his haud- by virtue of his office. The clerk of the circuit court of each county shall annually certify to the county court
a list of all moneys so paid to him and by him paid to the sheriff,
and in addition thereto a correct list of all cases in which jury fees
have been taxed, and are nt the time properly due a~d payable into
, the county treasury; and the sheriff of the county shall be ueld to
account in his annual settlement for all such moneys collected by
him.

24. No juror who shall depart without leave of the court, or· be~
ing summoned as a witness for the state, shall charge for his attendance as such, shall be entitled to receive suv compensation for
his services as a juryman.

25. The clerk of any court upon which juries are in attendance
shall, before the final adjournment of each term, and under the direction of the court, make an entry upon its minutes, stating separately the amount which each juror is entitled to receive out of the
state treasury, or out of the county treasury, for his services or attendance during the term. It shall be the duty of such clerk, as
soon as practicable after adjournment of the court, to transmit to the
auditor certified copies of all orders under this section, making allowances payable out of the state treasury. Any such clerk who
shall fail to pay over, as required by law, any moneys so received
by him, or otherwise to comply with the provisions of this chapter,
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and fined not less than fifty dollars.

26. It shall be the duty of such clerk, as soon as practicable after
the adjournment of the court, to deliver to each juror a certified copy
of any order under the preceding section making an allowance to him,
payable out of the state treasury or out of the county treasury; and
the sheriff of such county shall, upon demand, pay to such juror the
amount allowed him, which shall be repaid to the sheriff' out of the
state treasurv or out of the county treasury, upon the production of
satisfactory proof. that the same has actually been paid by him. If
any sheriff tail to pay any such allowance as required by law, he may
be proceeded against as for a contempt of court.

27. If any person shall be guilty of an_y fraud, either by practicing on the jury box previously to a draft, or in drawing a juror, or
in returning into the jury box the name of any person which has
lawfully been drawn out, and drawing and substituting another instead, or in failing to place such name in the box for the ballots
marked "drawn," or in any other way in the drawing of jurors, he
shall, on conviction thereof, be punished by a floe not exoeeding five
thousand dollars.

28. No person shall serve as a juror, except in trials for felony, at
any term of a court during which he has any matter of fact to be
tried by a jury, which shall have been, or is expected to be, tried
during the same term.

29. In any ease, except a case of felony, in which a trial by jury
would be otherwise proper, the parties or their counsel by consent
entered of record, may waive the right to have a jury, and thereupon the whole matter of law and fact shall be heard and determined,
and. judgment given hy the court; or by like consent, the jury may
consist of seven, and in that case a verdict shall be as valid, and
have the same effect as if it had been found by a jury of twelve.

30. Thejnry may, in any case, at the request of either party, be
taken to view the premises or place in question, or any property,
matter or thing relating to the controversy between the parties, when
it shall appear to the court that such view is necessary to a just decision, and in such case the judge presiding at the trial may go with
the jury and control the proceedings; and in a felony case the judge
and clerk shall go with the jury and the judge shall control the proceedings, and the accused sha1l Jikewise be taken with the jury, or
if under recognizance shall attend the view and his recognizance
shall be construed to require such attendance. The party making
motion
in a civil case, shall advance a sum sufficient to defray
the expenses of the jury and the officers who attend them in taking
the view ; which expenses shall be afterwards taxed like other legal
costs.

31. A juror knowing anything relative tc, a fact in issue shall disclose the same in open court, hut not to the jury out of court; and the
court shall inform the jury of this provision.

32. After a jury has been impaneled, no sheriff or other officer
shall converse with, or permit any one else to converse with a juror,
unless by leave of court.

2. All acts and parts of acts coming within the purview of this
act, and inconsistent therewith, are hereby repealed.

1. The supreme court of appeals and any circuit or· county court
shall annually appoint two or more persons to examine the clerk's
office of such court. They shall examine the fee-books aud the condition of the records and papers ill the office, and report whether
the clerk has faithfully discharged his duties. The court may allow
to each person making such examination, a sum not exceeding five
dollars, to be paid ont of the county treasury, when the examination
is of the office of the circuit or connty court, and out of the state
treasury when it is of the office of the court of appeals.

2. The clerk's office of the supreme court of appeals shall be kept
at the seat of government, unless such court shall direct it to be kept
elsewhere. The clerk's office of the circuit court and county court
for every county shall be kept at the court house of such county,
unless there shall have been a failure to provide such offices there,
in which case the clerks' offices may be kept at such other place
within the county as the court may direct.

3. All papers lawfully returned to, or filed in the clerk's office
shall be preserved therein until legally delivered out.

4. (Acts 1877, p. 83.) None of the records or papers of a court
shall be removed by the clerk nor allowed by the court to be removed out of the county wherein the clerk's office is kept, except on
an ooeasion of invasion or insurrection, actual or threatened, when
in the opinion of the court, or in a very sudden case of the clerk,
the same will be endangered, after which they are to be returned as
soon as the danger ceases, and except in such other cases as are specially provided for by law. Any clerk violating this section shall
forfeit six hundred dollars. But this act shall not be so construed
as to prevent a judge of a circuit court from taking files of papers
from any county of his circuit or directing the clerk to send such
files to him, when necessary to be used in vacation.

5. The records and papers of every court shall be open to the inspection ot any person, and the clerk shall, when required, furnish
copies thereof, except in cases where it is otherwise specially provided.

6. Any clerk of a court, or his deputy, may administer an oath in
any case wherein an affidavit is necessary or proper.

7. Every clerk shall prepare in a proper manner any bond to be
taken by or given before him or his court.

8. The clerk of the court wherein there is any partition of, or assignment of dower in, land under any order, or any recovery of land
under judgment or decree, shall transmit to the clerk of the county
court of each county wherein such land is, a copy of such order,
judgment or decree, and of such partition or assignment, and of the
order confirming the same, and along therewith such description of
the land as may appear in the papers of the cause, and the report of
such partition or assignment. Such clerk shall record the same in
his deed book, and index it in the name of the person who had the
land before, and also in the name of the person who became entitled
under such partition, assignment or recovery. And every such record shall be as effectual, in cases of partition, to convey the legal
title of such lands to the persons to whom the same is assigned by
the report of the commissioners, and decree of the courts as deeds
of partition would be if duly made by the parties. A clerk failing
to perform any duty required of him by this section shall forfeit not
less than twenty dollars nor more than one hundred dollars.

9. (Acts 188°2, p. 43.) The clerk of every circuit court shall keep
an execution book, in which he shall enter, in each case wherein an
execution has issued, the names of the parties, the time of the judgment, the amount thereof, and a reference to the page of the order
book wherein the amount appears, the date of each execution, nature
thereof, when returnable, and, if return be made thereon, the nature
of such return.

10. (ib.) The clerk of every court shall have an index to each
book he is required to keep, making convenient reference to every
order, record, or entry therein. Every execution, and every judgment or decree for money, shall be indexed as welJ in the name of
the person against whom, as in the name of the person in whose favor, the same is. A clerk failing to perform any <luty required of
him by this section, shall forfeit not less than twenty nor more than
one hundred dollars.

11. The clerk of every court, from whose office may be issued any
process, original, mesne or final, or any order or decree, to be served
on any person, shall, unless the party interested, or his attorney, direct otherwise, deliver the same to the sheriff or other officer of the
county for which the court is held, if it is to be executed therein,
and if it is to be executed in any other county, shall inclose the
same to the sheriff or other officer thereof, put it in the postoffice and
pay the postage thereon. The clerk shall keep a pro,cess book,
wherein there shall be an entry of every such process, order or decree, showing its nature, date, and return day, the person to whom,
and time when it was delivered, or if it was mailed, the time
thereof, and the person to whom it was enclosed. From any officer
to whom there is such delivery, the clerk shall take a receipt in his
process book.

12. If there come directed to a clerk, by mail, a letter, with an
endorsement on the envelope of the parties' names, and the nature
of the process enclosed, he shall take the same out of the postoffice,
and pay such postage as may be payable thereon.

13. There shall be no duplicate certificate of any allowance of a
con rt to be paid out of the treasury, unless the court, upon proof, by
the oath of the party or otherwise, of the loss or destruction of the
original certificate, shall order a duplicate; it shall show on its face
that it is a duplicate issued by order of the court. Any clerk who
shall issue a duplicate otherwise, shall forfeit one hundred dollars,

1. The clerk of any county court during the recess of the reguJar sessions of such court may appoint appraisers of estates of decedents, admit wills to record, appoint and qualify executors, administrators, guardians, curators and committees, and require and take
from them the necessary bonds in the same manner and with like effect, for the time being, as the said county court could do if in session, but no contest as to such probate or appointment shall be heard
or determined by such clerk.

2. The probate of every will and the appointment of every appraiser of the estate of a decedent, executor, administrator, guardian, curator and committee so made by such clerk, shall be reported
by him to the next regular session of the county court, when, if no
objection be made thereto, the court shall confirm the same. But if
objections be made by any person interested, the county court shall
hear and determine the same, and shall proceed in relation thereto
in the same manner as if the application for the probate of such will
or the appointment of such appraiser of the estate of a decedent, executor, administrator, guardian, curator or committee had been made
to said court. And the court may make from time to time, pending
such proceedings, such orders as it may deem necessary for the protection and safe-keeping of the estate of the testator or intestate.

3. When the probate of such will, or the appointment and qualification of such appraisers of estates of decedents, or the appointment
of such executor, administrator, guardian, curator or committee is
confirmed by the court, with or without contest, the same shall be
held and treated in all respects as if the will bad been admitted to
record, or the appointment had been made by the county court in the
first instance.

4. When objection is made to the action of the clerk, as mentioned
in the second section of this chapter, the party prevailing in the trial
of such objections shall recover from the opposite party his costs.

2. All acts and parts ot acts inconsistent with this act be and the
same are hereby repealed.

l. In every county in which now exists a tribunal for police and
fiscal purposes heretofore established under the thirty-fourth section
of the eighth article of the constitution of one thousand eight hundred and seventy-two, the clerk mentioned in the twenty-sixth
section of the amendment of one thousand eight hundred and
eighty to the constitution, shall exercise any powers and discharge
any duties conferred on or required ot the court or tribunal heretofore established for judicial purposes in such county, or the clerk
thereof, before the adoption of such amendment ; and ally powers
and duties now or hereafter conferre<l on or required of county courts
in other counties, or the clerks thereof (except as herein otherwise
provided) respecting the recording and preservation of deeds and
other papers presented for record, respecting matters of probate, the
appointment and qualification of personal representatives, guardians, committees, curators, und the settlement ot their accounts, and
in ull matters relating to apprentices. Such powers and duties may
be exercised and discharged as well during the sessions of the circuit court and of the tribunal for police and fiscal purposes in such
county as at other times.

2. No jury shall he impaneled before such clerk to settle questions of fact.

3. Such clerk shall keep an order hook in which shall be entered
all orders made by him respecting matters of probate, the appointment and qualification of personal representatives, guardians, committees, curators or apprentices. Any person interested may, within
one year after the entering of such any order, appeal therefrom to
the circuit court ot the county. Upon application being made for
such appeal, the said clerk shall enter in his order book an order allowing such appeal, and shall transmit to the clerk of the said circuit court all papers and copies of all orders pertaining to the matter. The circuit court shall hear and determine the matter as though
it had been presented to the said circuit court in the first Instance,
and shall cause a copy of the order embracing its final action therein
to be transmitted to the said clerk of the county court, who shall
enter the same in his order book. At any time after such appeal is
allowed, the said circuit court, or the judge thereof, may make any
such order for the protection of the parties interested, or for the protection or preservation of any property involved, as might have
been made had the matter been originally presented to the said circuit court.

4. When any act is required to be done by clerks of county courts
of other counties on the first days of the terms of the county courts,
such clerk of the county court in every county in which such special
tribunal for police and fiscal purposes was established as aforesaid,
shall perform such act, under the same regulations and penalties, on
the days appointed by law for the regular meetings of the tribunal
for police and fiscal purposes in his county.]

1. Any person desiring to obtain a license to practice law in the
courts of this state, must appear before the county court of the county
in wbidi he has resided for the last preceding year, and prove to the
satisfaciion ot such court that he is a person of good moral character,
that he is twenty-one years of age, and that he has resided in such
county for one year next preceding the date of his appearance; and
upon such proof being made the court shall make and enter an order
on its record accordingly. And any three judges of the supreme
court of appeals, or of the circuit courts of this state, may, upon the
production of a duly certified copy of such order, and after a full
and thorough examination of the applicant upon aJl the various
branches of the law, a knowledge of which is necessary in the practice thereof in this state, if they find him duly and sufficiently qualified to practice law in the courts of this state, grant him a license
in writing to do so; and Emch license shall show upon its face that
all the provisions of this section have been fully complied with.
Any person duly authorized and practicing as counsellor or attorney-at-law in any state or territory of the United States, or in
the District of Columbia, may practice as such in the courts of this
state upon producing before the courts in which he intends to practice, satisfactory evidence of his being so authorized.

3. Every attorney-at-la w shall, before each court, in which he
proposes to practice, take the following oath, that is to say: If he be
a resident of this state, an oath to support the constitution of the
United States and the constitution of the state of West Virginia,
and to honestly demean himself in the practice pf the law, and to the
best of his ability execute his office of attorney-at-law; and if he
be not a resident of this state, an oath to support the constitution
of the United States, and to honestly demean himself in the practice
of the law, and to the best of his ability execute his office of attorney-at-law.

4. If any person shall practice law in any court of this state,
without being so licensed, or without taking the oaths required, he
sha11 forfeit one hundred and fifty dolJars, for each case in which he
shall appear as attorney, one half whereof shall go to the informer.
But this penalty shall not be incurred by any attorney for instituting
suits in the circuit courts after obtaining a license, if he shall qualify
at the first term thereafter ot the circuit court of any county of the
circuit in which he resides.

5. Any court before which any attorney has been qualified, or
proof made to it, that he has been convicted of any felony, may supersede his license.

6. If the supreme court of appeals or any circuit or county court
observe any malpractice therein by any attorney, or if complaint be
made to any of said courts of malpractice by any attorney therein,
such court shall order the attorney to be summoned to show cause
why his license shall not be suspended or annulled, and upon the return of the summons executed, if the attorney appear and deny the
charge of malpractice, a jury shall be impaneled to try the same;
and if the attorney be found guilty, or if he fail to appear and deny
the charge, the court may either suspend or annul the licens~ of such
attorney as in its judgment shall seem right; and whenever a judgment or decree shall be standing or rendered in either of said courts
against an attorney for money by him collected as such, it sha.l be
the duty of such court to suspend the license of such attorney until
such judgment or decree shall be satisfied.

7. Nothing in the preceding section shall affect the right of any
court to require from an attorney therein security for his good behavior, or to fine him for a contempt of the court.

8. If any clerk, sheriff or any deputy of either, or any person interested in the profits of any such officer, shall act as attorney-at-law
in any case in any court of which such clerk or sheriff is an officer,
he shall forfeit thirty dollars.

9. Every attorney-at-law shall be liable to his client for any damages sustained by the neglect of his duty as such attorney.

10. If any attorney-at-Jaw or agent shall by his negligence or improper conduct, lose any debt or other money, he shall be charged
with the principal of what is so lost, and interest thereon, in like
manner as if he had received such principal, and it may be recovered
from him by suit or motion.

11. If any attorney receive money for his client as such attorney
and fail to pay the same on demand, or within six months after receipt thereof, without good and sufficient reason for such failure, it
may be recovered from him by suit or motion; and damages in lieu
of interest not exceeding fifteen per centum per annum until paid,
may be awarded against him, and he shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and be fined not less than twenty nor more than five hundred dollars.

12. Any attorney convicted under the eleventh section of this
chapter, shall in addition to the punishment therein prescribed, be
debarred from practicing as an attorney in any of the courts of this
state, and the same shall be entered by the court as part of its judgment.

13. An attorney shall be entitled for his services as such, to such
sum as he may contract for with the party for whom the service is
rendered ; and in the absence of such contract, he may recover of
such party, what his services were reasonably worth.

2. All acts and parts of acts coming within the purview of this
act, and inconsistent therewith, are hereby repealed.
CHAPTER CXX.

1. The attorney general shall give his opinion and advice in writing, whenever required to do so by the governor or other officers at
the seat of government, or by the board of public works.

2. He shall appear as counsel for the state in all cases, in which
the state is interested, depending in the supreme court of appeals, or
in the circuit court of the county in which the seat of government
may be.

3. He shall annually, on or before the first day of November, deliver to the governor a report of the state and condition cf the several causes, in which the state is a party, pending in the said courts.

4. On the final determination of any cause in either of the courts
mentioned in the second section in which the attorney-general appeared for the state, the clerk thereof shall certify to the auditor the
fee of the attorney-general which was taxed in the bill of costs
against the defendant, and in case the said fee shall be paid into the
treasury, the auditor shall issue his warrant on the treasury in favor
of the attorney-general for the amount thereof.

5. It shall be the duty of the attorney-general of this state to appear and protect the interests of the citizens of this state in all actions,
suits and other proceedings that are now, or shall hereafter be, instituted in any court of record in this state, in favor of or against
any railroad company whose road passes through any portion of the
territory of this state, whenever such action, snit or proceeding involves the right to assess or colJect taxes upon the property, real or
personal, of said railroad by any authority in this state authorized
to levy taxes, whenever said attorney-general shall be requested by
said authority to do so; for which appearance and services he shall
receive a reasonable fee, to be paid by the authority requesting his
appearance as aforesaid. But no compensation shall be paid him
therefor by the state, except his salary and actual traveling expenses
incurred.

6. It sha11 be the duty of every prosecuting attorney in this state
to attend to the criminal business of the state in the county in which
be is elected and qualified, and also to civil eases in which the state
is interested in such county, when required by and under the direction of the auditor ; and when he has information of the violation
of any penal law committed within his county, shall institute and
prosecute all necessary and proper proceedings against the offender,
and may in such case issue or cause to be issued a summons for any
witness he may deem material. He shall also represent the county
in all snits and proceedings for and on behalf of or against the county, or county court, overseers of the poor, or other public authorities
of the county, and carefully look after and give attention to the general interests of the county. And no allowance or compensation
shall be made for such services, except his annual salary and the allowance provided for in chapter one hundred and thirty-eight of this
code.

7. Any prosecuting attorney may, with the assent of the circuit
court of his county entered of record, appoint one practicing attorney to assist him in the discharge of his official duties for and during his term of office, and such assistant shall take the same oath of
office and may perform the same duties as bis principal; and he may
be removed from office as such assistant by the circuit court in which
be was appointed, for any cause for which his principal might be so
removed. The compensation of such assistant shall be paid by the
principal from the income of the office. The prosecuting attorney
and his said assistant, (if he have one,) shall manage and control all
prosecutions for crimes and misdemeanors tried in the circuit court
of any county for which such prosecuting attorney was elected or
appointed. Provided, That in any case in which it would in the
opinion ot the court, be improper for the prosecuting attorney and
his said assistant, (if he have one,) to act, such court shall appoint
some competent practicing attorney to prosecute such case, and upon
the performance of the service for which he was appointed, said court
shall certify that fact, with its opinion o( what would be a resonable allowance to such attorney for the service rendered, to the county court of the county, and such sum or a different sum when allowed by the county court sha11 be paid out of the county treasury.
Provided, further, that nothing in this section shall be construed to
prohibit the employment, by any person, of competent attorneys to
assist in the prosecution of any person charged with crime.

8. Every assessor, sheriff, constable or other officer shall give information of the violation of any penal law to such attorney, who
shall forthwith institute and prosecute all necessary and proper proceedings in such case, whether in th- name of the state, or of the
county or of tbe county court, and may in such case issue or cause
to be issued a summons for any witness he may deem material, to
give evidence before the court or grand jury.

2. All acts and parts of acts coming withi,1 the purview of tbis
act, and inconsistent therewith, are hereby repealed.

1. A notice. no particular mode of serving which is prescribed,
may be served by delivering a copy thereof in writing to the party
in person ; or if he be not found by delivering such copy at his
usual place of abode to his wife or to any other person found there
who is a member of his family, and above the age of sixteen years,
and giving information of the purport of such copy to the person to
whom it is delivered; or if neither his wife nor any such other
person be-found there, and he be not found, by leaving such copy
posted at the front door of said place of abode. Any sheriff or con·
stable, thereto required, shall serve a notice within his county, and
make return ot the manner and time of service ; for a failure so to
do he shall forfeit twenty dollars. Such return, or a similar return
by any other person who verifies it by affidavit, shall be evidence of
the manner and time of service.

2. Any such notice to a person not residing in this state, may be
served by the publication thereof once a week for four successive
weeks in a newspaper printed in this state.

3. Whenever any party on whom a notice to take a deposition
should be served is not a resident of this state, the service of such
notice on the counsel of such party shaJI have the like effect as if it
were served upon th~ party, provided the time between the service
of notice and taking the deposition be sufficient for conveying by
ordinary course of mail a letter from the place of service to the place
of residence of the party, and a reply from that place back to the
place of service, and then for the counsel to attend at the place of
taking the deposition. In all cases when notice is served on eoun801 as aforesaid, the court, upon exception being taken, may determine whether under all the circumstances the notice has been served
in reasonable time, and admit or reject the deposition accordingly.

4. In any case wherein there may be judgment or decree for
money on motion, .such motion shall be after ten days' notice,
unless some other time be specified in the section giving such
motion.

5. In the case of any bond taken by an officer, or given by a
a sheriff or constable, and returned to or filed in the office of the
clerk of the county court of the county, the circuit court of the
county may, on motion of any person, give judgment for so much
money as he is entitled, by virtue of such bond, to recover by action.

6. Any person entitled to recover money by action on any contract may, on motion before any court which would have jurisdiction in au action, othprwise than under the second section of the one
hundred and twenty-third chapter of this code, obtain judgment for
such money after thirty days' notice: which notice shall be returned
tJ the clerk's office of such court twenty days before the motion is
heard. A motion under this section, which is docketed under the
first section of chapter one hundred and thirty-one of this code,
shall not be discontinued by reason of no order of continuance being
entered in it from one day to another, or from term f o term.

7. A person entitled to obtain judgment for money on motion may,
as to any person liable for such money, move severally against each
or jointly against all, or jointly against any intermediate number,
and may also move severally against the personal representative of
any decedent who in his lifetime was liable alone or jointly with
others; and when notice of his motion is not served on all of those
to whom it is directed,judgment may nevertheless be given against
so many of those liable as shall appear to have been served with the
notice. Such motions mav be made from time to time until there is
judgment against every person liable, or his personal representative.
Defense to such motions may be made in the same manner and to
the same extent as in actions at law.

8. On a motion when an issue of fact is joined, and either party
desires it, or when in the opinion of the court it is proper, a jury
shall be impaneled.
ACTS REPEALED.

2. All acts and parts of acts coming within the purview of this
act, and inconsistent therewith, are hereby repealed.

1. Any person desiring a change of his own name, or that of his
child or ward, may apply therefor to the circuit court of the county
in which he resides; and thereupon such court, in its discretion, may
order a change of the name, and thenceforth the new name shall be
in place of the (ormer.
ADOPTION OF CHILDREN•

2. It shall be lawful for any person not married, or any husband,
with his wife's consent, or any wife, with her husband's consent, or
any husband and wife jointly, to petition the circuit court of the
county wherein he, she or they may reside, for permission to adopt
any minor child, and also to petition for a change of name of such
child; Provided, That if such child be of the age of fourteen years,
or over, the written consent of such child to such adoption, duly
acknowledged, must be obtained and presented with the petition,
and also the written consent of the parent or parents, if living, and
not insane; if both pf!rents should be dead, or unknown, or insane,
or shall have abandoned the child sought to be adopted, then, and in
such case the written consent, acknowledged as aforesaid, must be
obtained fr11ru the legal guardian of such child. Aud if there be
no legal guardian then such consent must be obtained from some
discreet and suitable person appointed by the court to he the next
friend of such child sought to be adopted.

3. Such petition sha1l specify the name, age and place of residence
of the petitioner or petitioners, and of the child, and the name by
which the child shall be known; whether such child be possessed of
any property, and the full description of the same, if any; whether
such child has either father or mother, or both, living; in case he,
she or they are alive, then the name or names, and place of resi- .
deuce of such father and mother must be given, unless proven to be
unknown to the petitioner or petitioners; the persons petitioning as
aforesaid shall be at least fifteen years older than the child sought to
be adopted, and the petition shall be duly verified according to law.

4. Upon the presentation of such petition to the court, the same
shall be ordered filed with the clerk of said court, and the court shall
appoint a day for the hearing of said petition and the examination
under oath of the parties in interest, not less than ten nor mw-e than
twenty days from the filing of the petition. Aud the court may adjourn the hearing of said petition or the examination of the parties
in interest from time to time, as the nature of the case way require;
and if it shall be necessary under the provisions of this act, that a
discreet and suitable person shall be appointed as the next friend to
to the child sought to be adopted, then and in that case the court
shall order a notice of the petition and of the time and the place
when and where the appointment of next friend will be wade, to be
published in some newspaper of general circulation in the county
where said court is located, once a week for four successive weeks;
and at the time and place RO named, and upon due proof of the publication of such notice, the court shall make such appointment,. and
shall thereupon assign a day for the hearing of said petition and examination of the parties interested, not more than twenty days from
the time of appointing the next friend, and upon the day so appointed the court shall proceed to a full hearing of the petition and
examination of the parties in interest, under oath; and if the court,
from the testimony, shall be of the opinion that the facts stated in
the petition are true, and if upon examination the court is satisfied
that the petitioner, or petitioners, is, or are of good moral character
and of respectable standing in the community, and of ability to properly maintain and educate the child sought to be adopted, and that
the best interests of the child would be promoted by such adoption,
then and in such a case, the court shall make a decree reciting the
facts at length and the name by which the child shall thereafter be
known; declaring and adjudging that from the date of such decree
the rights, duties, privileges and relations theretofore existing between the child and his or her parent or parents, shall be in all respects at an end, excepting the right of inheritance; and that the
rights, duties, privileges and relations between the child and his or
her parent or parents by adoption, shall thenceforth in all respects
be the same, including the right of inheritance, as if the child had
been born to such adopted parent or parents in lawful wedlock, except only as otherwise provided in this chapter. Petitions, decrees,
testimony and proceedings shall be recorded in a book kept for that
purpose, and the clerk shall receive the same fees as for the recording of a deed, and upon the entry of such decree of adoption, the
parents of the child if living, shall be divested of all legal rights
and obligations due from them to the child, or from the child to
them, and the child shall be free from all legal obligations of obedience
or otherwise to the parents, and the adopting parent or parents of the·
child shall be invested with every legal right ii~ respect to obedience
and maintainance on the part of the child, as if said child had been
born to them in lawful wedlock; and the child shall be invested with
every legal right, privilege,ohligation and relation in respect to education, maintenance, and the rights of inheritance in the estate of such
adopting parent or parents, us if born to them in lawful wedlock; except that said child shall not be capable of taking property expressly
limited to the heirs of the body of the adopting parent or parents, nor
property coming from the collateral kindred of such adopting parent
or parents by rigut of' inheritance; Provided, that on the death of the
adopting parent or parents and the subsequent death of the child so
adopted, without issue, the property of such adopting deceased pa- .
rent or parents shall descend to and be distributed among the next
ot kindred of said parent or parents, and uot to the next of kin of
the adopted child. Provided, also, that if such adopting parent or
parents shell have other child or children, theirs by birth, then, and
in that case, the adopted child shall share the inheritance with the
child or children born to the adopting parent or parents, in which
case, he, she or they, shall respectively inherit from and through
each other as if all had been children of the same parents born in
lawful wedlock.

5. A parent or guardian of a minor, when a minor is adopted
under the provisions of this chapter, who had no notice of the proceedings, may, at any time within a year, after receiving notice, apply by petition to the circuit court in which the petition mentioned
in the second section was filed, praying that the adoption may be
vacated. The court applied to shall give notice of a hearing, and
shall bear the petitioner and all parties interested, and may vaeate or
affirm the adoption in its discretion. Any party interested may appeal from the decision of the said court in the matter, as in other
cases of appeals in matters of probate. If the person thus adopted
is adopted while a minor he may, within one year after becoming of
age, sign, seal and acknowledge before proper authority, in the
county in which the instrument of adoption was filed, a dissent
from such adoption. Such instrument of dissent shall be recorded
in such county court clerk's office, and upon the filing of the same
the adoption shall be void.

1. Any action at law or suit in equity, except where it is otherwise specially provided, may hereafter be brought in the circuit
court of any county.
First. Wherein any of the defendants may reside, except that
an action of ejectment or unlawful detainer must be brought io the
county wherein the land sought to be recovered or some part thereof
is ; or,
Secondly. If a corporation be a defendant, wherein its principal ·.
office is, or wherein its mayor, president, or other chief officer resides, or if its principal office be not in this state, and its mayor,
president or other chief officer do not reside therein, wherein it does
business; or,
Thirdly. If it be to recover land, or subject it to a debt, wherein
such land, or anv part thereof, may be; or,
Fou,rthly. If it be against a non-resident of this state, wherein he
may be found, or may have estate or debts due him; or,
Fifthly. If it be on behalf of the state, in the name of the attorney general or otherwise, wherein the seat of government is; or,
Sixthly. If a judge of a circuit court be interested in a case
. which, but for such interest, would be proper for the jurisdiction of
his court, the action or snit may be brought in any county in an adjoining circuit.

2. An action may be brought in any county wherein the cause of
action, or any part thereof arose, although none of the defendants
may reside therein.

3. Jurisdiction of writs of mandamus, prohibition, quo uiarranio
and certiorari, (except such as may be issued from the supreme
court of appeals, or a judge thereof in vacation,) shall be in the circuit court of the county in which the record or proceeding is, to
which the writ relates. Any such writ may be awarded either by
the circuit court or (in vacation) by the judge thereof.
ACTS REPEALED.

2. All acts and parts of acts coming within the purview of this
act, and inconsistent therewith, are hereby repealed.

1. Until the supreme court of appeals shall alter the forms of
writs, the same may be as heretofore used, except so far as is otherwise provided.

2. Process from any court, whether original, me-sne or final, may
be directed to the sheriff of any county, except that process against
a defendant ( unless a railroad, canal, turnpike, telegraph or insurance company be defendant,) to answer in any action brought under
the second section of chapter one hundred and twenty-three of this
code, shall not be directed to an officer of any other county than
that wherein the action is brought. Any process may be executed
on or before the return day thereof. If it appear to be duly served
and good in other respects, it shall be deemed valid, although not
directed to any officer, or if directed to au officer, though executed
by any other to whom it might lawfully have been directed. Process
to commence suits, including writs of scire faeias, mandamus, quo
uiarranio, certiorari, prohibition and the alias or other process, where
the original is returned not executed, may also be served by any
credible person ; and the return of sueh person, verified by his affidavit, shall be evidence of the manner and time of service. Any
process shall be returnable, within ninety days after its date, to the
court on the first day of the term, or in the clerk's office to the first
Monday in a month, or to some rule day, except as follows: A summons for a witness shall be returnable on whatever day his attendance is desired, and an order of attachment may be returnable to the
next term of the court, although more than ninety days from the
date of the order, and process awarded in court may be returnable
as the court shall direct.

3. If at the return day of any process it be not returned execu-.
ted, an alias or other proper process may be issued without waiting
(where the first process is returnable to a term) for the subsequent
process to be awarde<l at rules. And where, for want of a return of
the first process against a defendant, any subsequent process is issued, if the former was executed, the officer shall not execute the
latter, but shaJl return the former if it is in his possession, and if he
has it uot, shall return the latter with an endorsement of the execution of the former, and the proceedings thereupon shall be as if the
first had been duly returned.

4. Every officer who attends a court shall, within five days after
the end of any rules, go to the clerk's office and receive a11 process,
orders and decrees to be executed by him and give receipts therefor. For any failure so to do he shall forfeit fifty dollars.

5. The procei;;s to co.mmcnce a suit shall be a writ commanding
the officer to whom it is directed, to summon the defendant to answer the bill or action. It shall be issued on the order of the plaintiff, or his attorney or agent, and shall not, after it is issued, be altered, nor any blank therein filled up, except by the clerk.

6. Any summons or scire facias against any person, including a
summons for a witness, may be served as a notice is served under
the first section of chapter one hundred and twenty-one of this code,
to which end the clerk issuing such process, unless otherwise directed, shall deliver or transmit therewith as many copies thereof as
there are pers,ms named therein, on whom it is to be served. No
judgment by default on n scire facias or summons shall be valid, if
it become final within thirty days after the service of such process.

7. It shall be sufficient to serve any process against or notice to
a corporation on its mayor, president or other chief officer, or any
person appointed pursuant to law to accept service of process for it,
or in his absence, from the county or municipal corporation, to the
officer of which the process is directed, it shall be sufficient to serve
the notice or process, if the corporation to be served be a city, town
or village, on two members of the council; and if it be not a city,
town or village, on the secretary, cashier, or treasurer, aud if there
be none such or he be absent, on a member of the board of trustees,
directors or visitors. If there be not within the state anv other
person on whom there can be service as aforesaid, service o~ a director, agent, (including in the case of a railroad company, a depot
or station agent in actual employment of the company), or
other officer of the corporation against which the case is shall be
sufficient.

8. It shall be sufficient service of any process on, or notice to a
corporation which shall have been formed, or which may be hereafter formed under, or which has accepted, or which may hereafter
accept, the provisions of chapter fifty-four of this code, and which,
within the time prescribed by the twenty-fourth section of said chapter, shall fail to comply with the said chapter, if a copy of such process or notice be delivered by a proper officer or person to any person at or in charge of its principal office or place of business; or
such corporation may be proceeded against by order of publication.

9. In a case against any common carrier ( other than a corporation) for any liability as such, it shall be sufficient to serve any process against or notice to the carrier, or any agent, or the driver,
captain or conductor of any vehicle of such carrier, and to publish a
copy of the process or notice as an order is published under the
twelfth section of this chapter.

10. No jndgment sha11 be rendered on a scire faeias, or in any
other case, on returns of nihil.

11. On affidavit that a defendant is not a resident of this state;
or that diligence has been used by or on behalf of the plaintiff to
ascertain in what county he is, without effect; or that proces~, directed to the officer of the county in which he resides or is, has been
twice delivered to such officer more than ten days before the return
day, and been returned without being executed ; or that the defendant is a corporation, and that no person can be found iu the county
upon whom the process can be legally served; an order of publication may be entered against such deiendant. And in any suit in
equity, where the bill states that the names of any persons interested
in the subject to be divided or disposed of are unknown, and makes
such persons defendants by the general description of parties unknown, on affidavit of the fact that the said names are unknown, an
order of publication may be entered against such unknown parties.
Any order under this section may be entered either in court or at the
rules. In a proceeding by petition, there may be an order of publication in like manner as in a suit in equity.

12. Every order of publication shall state briefly the object of the
suit, and require the defend. mts ugaiust whom it is entered, or the .
unknown parties to appear within one month after the date of the
first publication thereof, and do what is necessary to protect their interests. It shall be published once a week for four successive weeks,
in some newspaper published in the county in which the order is
made or directed, if one ii; so published, unless the circuit court of
such county otherwise order; and if no newspaper be published in
the county, then in such other newspaper as the court may prescribe;
or if none be so prescribed, as the clerk may direct. It shall be
deemed to have beeu duly published 011 the day of the fourth publication thereof. It shall also be posted at the front door of the court
house of the county wherein the court is held, at least twenty days
before judgment or decree is rendered,

13. When such order shall have been so posted and published, if
the defendants against whom it is entered, or the unknown parties,
shall not appear at the next term of the court, after such publication
is completed, the case may be tried or heard as to them. Personal
service of a summons, seire faeias, or notice may be made on a nonresident defendant. out of this state, which service shall have the
same effect, and no other, as an order of publication, duly posted and
published against him. In such case the return must be made under oath, and must show the time and place of such service, and that
the defendant so served is a non-resident of this state. Upou any
trial or hearing under th is section, such judgment, decree or order
shall be entered as may appear just.

14. Any unknown party or other defendant;who was not served
with process in this state, and did not appear in the case before the
date of such judgment, decree or order, or the representative of
such, may, within five years trom that date, if he be not served with
a copy of such judgment, decree or order, more than one year before the end of said five years, and if he was so served, then within
one year from the time of such service, file his petition to have the
proceedings reheard in the manner and form provided by section
twenty-five of chapter one hundred and six of this code, and not
otherwise; and all the provisions of that section are hereby made app.icable to proceedings under this section.

15. (Acts 1883, p. 69.) When, by the return of any officer of process issued to answer any appeal or supersedeas now pending or which
may be hereafter pending in the supreme court of appeals in this
state, or when, from affidavits filed with the clerk of the said court,
it shall appear that the appellee or defendant in any such appeal or
supcrsedeas is a non-resident of this state, or that the names or places
of residence of such parties are unknown, so that process cannot be
served upon them, where such service may be necessary, it shall be
lawful for thP clerk of said court, upon application, to take and issue,
on the first Monday in any month, an order of publication against
such absent or unknown parries, requiring them to appear on acertain day, to be dcsignuted in said order, then and there to answer
the said appeal or supereedeas and to have a rehearing of the whole
matter therein contained.

16. (ih.) Snch order or publication shall be entered by the clerk
in a suitable book kept by him for the purpose and signed by him,
and a certified copy of such order shall be inserted once a week for
t'our !-tHcei\'e weeks in some newspaper to 1'e named therein, and a
eopy of ~a4d order shall be posted at the front door of the building
in which said court is held in th .. grand division in which the cause
is to be heard ; and when it shall appear that said order of publication has been duly published and posted as aforesaid, the court may
proceed to hear and decide such cause in the same manner as if the
said parties had been personally served with process : Provided,
houeeer, That the order of publication shall have been executed, as
aforesaid, at least thirty days before the day on which any such cause
may be called for hearing.

17. Any unknown party or other defendant who was not served
with process in this state, and did not. appear in the cause, may
have the same reheard, and any injustice in the proceedings corrected within the time prescribed by the fourteenth section of this
chapter.

2. All acts and parts of acts coming within the purview of this
act, and inconsistent therewith, are hereby repealed.

1. In the clerk's office of every circuit court, except where a different provision is made by law, rules shall be held on the first Monday of every month, except when a term of the circuit court happens to commence on the first Monday in a month, or either of the
two following clays, or on the preceding Tuesday, Wednesday,
Thursday, Friday or Saturday, the rules which otherwise would
have been held for the said month on the first Monday, shall be
held on last Monday in the next preceding month. The rules may
continue three days; but when in any case such continuance would
interfere with the terms of the court for which the rules are held,
they shall not continue in such case beyond the day preceding the
commencement of the term of such court.

2. Where rules are held on the last Monday in a month, as provided in the preceding section, they shall be entered in the rule
docket and endorsed on the declaration or bill as if taken on the first
Monday in the month to which they relate.

3. There shall be a docket of the cases at rules, wherein the rules
shall be entered; and t.he books in which rules and orders are entered, in chancery cases, shall be separate from those in which rules
and orders .are entered in other cases.

4. When there is no clerk to take a rule in a case, it shall stand
continued until the next rule day after there is a clerk. •

5. The rules may be to declare, plead, reply, rejoin or for other
proceedings; they shall be given from month to month.
WHEN THE SUIT WILL ABATE OR BE DISMISSED.

6. A defendant may appear at the rule day at which the process
against him is returnable, or if it be returnable in term, at the first
rule day after the return day, and if the declaration or bill be not
then filed, may give a rule for the plaintiff to file the same. If the
plaintiff fail to do this at the succeeding rule day, or shall, at any
time after the defendant's appearance, fail to prosecute his suit, he
shall be non-suited, and pay to the defendant, besides his cost, five
dollars.

7. If three months elapse after the process is returned executed as
to any one or more of the defendants, without the dec]aration or bill
being filed, the clerk shall enter the suit dismissed, although none of
the defendants may have appeared.

8. When a summons to answer an action or bill is against a de·
fendant whom the officer (receiving it) knows not to reside in his
county, or to reside out of the state, he shall, unless he find him in
his county on or before the return day, return him a non-resident;
whereupon, if the court from which such procesR issued have jurisdiction of the case only on the ground of such defendant's residence
in such county, the action or suit shall abate as to him; and if he
be returned a non-resident of the state, and the court have jurisdiction of the case only on the ground that the cause of action arose in
the county, the action or suit shal1 abate as to him.

9. No action shall abate for want of form, where the declaration
sets forth sufficient matter of substance for the court to proceed upon
the merits of the case.

10. In action of trespass, general avermeuts that the defendant
committed other wrongs, and that the acts charged were done with
force and arms against the peace, may be omitted; and the plaintiff may prove all that he could have done if such avermeuts had
been inserted in the declaration.

11. In every action of assumpsit the plaintiff shall file with his
declaration an account stating distinctly the several items of his
claim, unless it he plainly described in the declaration, and if he fail
to do so, he shall not be permitted to prove u.ny item not stated in
such account, on the trial of the case.

12. The plaintiff may of right amend his declaration or bill at
any time before the appearance of the defendant, or after such appearance if substantial justice will be promoted thereby. But if
such amendment be made after the appearance of the defendant, the
court may impose such terms upon the plaintiff as to a continuance
of the cause, and the payment of the costs of such continuance, as
it may deem just. The plaintiff may also at any time before or
after the appearance ot the defendant, in the vacation of the court
wherein the suit is pending, file in the clerk's office, with the other
papers in the cause, an amended declaration or bill, supplemental
bill, or bill of revivor; whereupon the clerk shall issue a summons
against the defendant, requiring him to plead to, or answer such
amended declaration or bill. But if the court shall be of opinion
that the same was improperly filed, it shall dismiss such declaration
or bill at the costs of the plaintiff'.

13. The proceedings in a suit, wherein an infant or insane person
is a party, shall not be stayed because of such infancy or insanity, but
the court in which the suit is pending, or the clerk thereof at mies,
may appoint a guardian ad /item to any infant or insane defendant,
whether such defendant shall have been served with process or not,
and after such appointment no process need be served on such infant
or insane person. The court may compel the person so appointed to
act, or appoint another in his stead; but the person so appointed
shall not be liable for costs, and shall be allowed his reasonable
charges, which the party on whose motion he was appointed shall
pay.

14. No plea in abatement for a misnomer shall be allowed in any
action; but in a case wherein, but for this section, a misnomer would
have been pleadable in abatement, the declaration and summons
may, on the motion of either party, and on the affidavit of the right
name, he amended by inserting the same therein.

15. In other cases, the defendant on whom the process summoning him to answer appears to have been served, shall not take advantage of any defect in the writ or return, or any variance in the
writ from the declaration, unless the same be pleaded in abatement.
And in every such case the court may permit the plaintiff to amend
the writ or declaration so as to correct the variance, and permit the return to be amended, upon such terms as to it shall seem just.

16. Where the declaration or hill shows on its face proper matter
for the jurisdiction of the court, no exception for the want of snch
jurisdiction shall be allowed, unless it be taken by plea in abate ..
ment; and the plea shall not be received after the defendant has
pleaded in bar, or answered to the declaration or bill, after a
rule to plead, or a conditional judgment or decree uiei.

17. No plea in abatement, for the non-joinder of any person as a
co-defendant, shall be allowed in any action, unless it be stated in the
plea that such person is a resident of the state, and unless the place
of residence of such person be stated with convenient certainty in an
affidavit verifying the plea.

18. If a defendant plead in abatement that any other person ought
to be jointly sued, and at the trial of an issue joined on such plea, it
appear that the action could not, by reason of ehapter ninety-eight,
or chapter one hundred and four of this code, be maintained against
'such other persons, or any of them, such issue shall be found against
the defendant so pleading.

19. After· such plea in abatement, the plaintiff', without proceeding
to trial upon an issue thereon, may amend his declaration, and make
the persons named in such plea as joint contractors, defendants in
the case with the original defendants, and cause process to be served
upon the new detendants; and, if it appear by the subsequent pleadings in the action, or at the trial thereof, that all of the original defondants are liable, but that one or more of the other persons named
in such plea are not liable, the plaintiff shall be entitled to judgment,
or to verdict and judgment, as the case may be, against the defendants who appear liable; and such as are not liable shall have judgment, and recover costs as against the plaintiff, who shall be allowed
the same as costs against the defendants who so pleaded.

20. The defendant in any action or suit may plead as many several matters, whether of law or fact, as he shall think necessary, except that if he plead the plea of non esifaclum he shall not, without
leave of the court, be permitted to plead any other plea inconsistent
therewith.
Tu any special plea, pleaded by a defendant, the plaintiff may plead as many special replications as he may deem necessary.

21. The defendant may plead in abatement and in bar at the
same time, but the issue on the plea in abatement shall be first tried.
And if such issue be found against the defendant, he may, nevertheless, make any other defense he may have to the action.

22. In a plea, replication, or subsequent pleading, intended to be
pleaded in bar, or in the maintenance of the action, it shall not be
necessary to use auy al legation of aeiionem. non or pi·ecludi non, or to
the like effect, or any prayer of judgment.

23. No party shall be prejudiced by omitting a protestation in any
pleading.

24. All special traverses, or traverses with an inducement of affirmative matter, shall conclude to the country. But this regulation
shall not preclude the opposite party from pleading over to the inducement when the traverse is immaterial.

25. When the plaintiff takes issue on the defendant's pleading, or
traverses the same, or demurs, so that the defendant is not let in to
allege any new matter, the plaintift may proceed as if there were a
similiter or joinder in demurrer.

26. No formal defense shall be required in a plea; it may commence as follows : " The defendant savs that."

27. It shall not be necessary to state in a second or other plea,
that it is pleaded by leave of the court, or according to the form of
the statute, or to that effect.

28. The form of a demurrer or joinder in demurrer shall be:
" The defendant (or plaintiff) says that the declaration (or plea,
etc.,) is not (or is) sufficient in law."

29. On a demurrer (unless it be to a plea in abatement.) the court
shall not regard any defect or imperfection in the declaration or
pleadings, whether it has heretofore been deemed mispleading or insufficient pleading or not, unless there be omitted something so essential to the action or defense that judgment according to law and
the very rigbt of the cause cannot be given. No demurrer shall be ·
. sustained because of the omission in any pleading of the words, "this
he· is ready to verify," or, "this he is ready to verify by the record,"
or "ns appears by the record;" but the oppos ite party may be excused from replying, demurring or otherwise answering to any
pleading which ought to have, but has not such words therein, until
they be inserted. If nothing be alleged by the <lemurrant in support of his demurrer the court, if it overrule the same, shall state
that fact in the order; and if final judgment be obtained in the cause
by the party whose pleading is demurred to, the same shall not be
reversed by reason of any defect in the pleading so demurred to.

30. A plaintiff in equity may have any plea or demurrer set down
to be argned. If the same be overruled, no other plea or demurrer
shall afterwards be received, but there shall be a rule upon the defendant to answer the bill ; and if he tail to' appear and answer the
bill on the day specified in the order, the plaintiff shall be entitled
to a decree against him for the relief prayed for therein.

31. A plaintiff in equity may take issue upon a plea, and have
such issue tried by a jury.

32. It shall not be necssary in any declaration or other pleading to
set forth the place in which any contract was made, or act done, unless
when, from the nature of the case, the place is material or traversable,
and then the allegation may be as to a deed, note, or other writing
bearing date at any place, that it was made at such place, or as to
any other act, according to the fact, without averring or suggesting that it was at or in the county in which the action is brought,
unless 'it was in fact therein.

33. It shall not be necessary in any action to aver that the cause
of action arose or that the matter is within the jurisdiction of the
court, or to make profert of any deed, letters testamentary, or commission of administration ; but a defendant may have oyer in like
manner as if proferr were made.

34. All allegations which are not traversable, and which the party
could not be required to prove, may be omitted, unless when they
are required for the right understanding of allegations that are material.
GENERAL RULES AS TO PLEADINGS AND PROCEEDINGS IN EQUITY.

35. The defendant in a suit in equity may, in his answer, allege
any new matter constituting a claim for affirmative reliet in such suit
against the plaintiff or any defendant therein, in the same manner
and with like effect as if the same had been alleged in a cross-bill
filed by him therein; and in such case, if the plaintiff or defendant
against whom such relief is claimed desire to controvert the relief
prayed for in the answer, he shall file a special reply in writing, denying such allegations of the said answer as he does not admit to be
true, and stating am· facts constituting a defense thereto. But in
case a defendant all;ge new matter in his answer upon which he relies for and pra)S affirmative relief, such defendant shall not file a
cross-bill in the same cause except upon condition of striking from
his answer all such matter and prayer for affirmative relief as are
contained in such cross-bill.
.36. Every material allegation of the bill not controverted by an
answer, and e,·ery material allegation of new matter in the answer
constituting a claim for affirmative relief not controverted by a special reply in writing, shall for the purposes of the suit, be taken as
true, and no proof thereof shall be required.

37. The plaintiff's bill may be in form or in substance as follows:
"The bill of complaint of A-B-(state the names of all
the plaintiffs) against C--D-(state the names of all the defendants, if known, and if not, designate them as the 'unknown parties,' or 'unknown heirs,' etc., as the case may be,) filed in the circuit court of--county. The plaintiff complains and says that
(here state all the facts constituting a claim to relief.) The said
plaintiff therefore prays that (here state the particular relief desired.)
He also asks such other and general relief as the court may see fit to
grant.
A-B--,
Plaintiff."
Every person designated in the caption of such bill as a de ...
fendant shall be a defendant therein, without a prayer that he
be made such and shall be required to answer the bill in the
same manner and to the same extent as if he were therein called upon to do so.

38. If the plaintiff desire the defendant to answer the bill on oath
he must verify his hill by affidavit, and if the bill be so verified, the
defendant must in like manner verify his answer. But if the bill
be not verified, the defendant need not verify his answer, and if he
does 80 it shall not be entitled to any more weight in the cause than
if it had not been verified. lo case the defendant verify his answer,
alleging new matter constituting a claim for affirmative relief, the
plaintiff must verify his special reply thereto. A general replication to an answer claiming affirmative re.ief shall not apply to so
much of said answer as states facts constituting a claim to such
relief.

39. No plea in abatement or plea of non estfaeium shall be received
unless it be verified by affidavit.

40. Where a declaration or other pleading alleges that any person made, endorsed, assigned or accepted any writing, no proof of
the handwriting of such person shall be required, unless the fact be
denied by an affidavit with the plea which puts it in issue.

41. Where plaintiffs or defendants sue or are sued as partners,
and their names are set forth in the declaration or bill, or where a
plaintiff or defendant sues or is sued as a corporation, it shall not
be necessary to prove the fact ofsuch partnership or the existence of
such corporation, unless the pleading which puts the matter in issue
be verified, or there be an affidavit filed therewith denying such
partnership or the existence of such corporation. A plea putting in
issue the existence of a corporation shall be sufficient if it be in form
or effect as follows:
"And the said defendant for plea says, that the plaintiff (or defendant, as the case may be,) is not a corporation as in the plaintiff's
declaration is alleged."

42. The verification of any pleading, and the certificate thereof,
may be in form or effect as follows :
"State of West Virginia,
county, to-wit:
A-B--,
the plaintiff (or defendant, as the case may be,)
named in the foregoing bill, (or answer, replication, or plea as the
; case may be.) being duly sworn, says that the facts and allegations
therein contained are true, except so far as they are therein stated to
be on information, and that so far as they are therein stated to be
upon information he believes them to be true.
A-B--, plaintiff or defendant.
Taken, sworn to and subscribed before me this - day of--.
C
B
, clerk, (or other officers swearing him.)
If the party required to verify a pleading be an administrator or
other fiduciary, it shall be sufficient if he swear that he believes the
plea or other pleading to be true. A bill of injunction to be sworn
to by any person other than the plaintiff, or answer to a bill of injunction to be sworn to by a person other than the defendant making the answer, must be 80 drawn as to show which of the allegations therein contained are made on information and belief, and the
verification thereof must be in form or effect es follows:
"State of ,vest Virginia,
county, to-wit :
A
B---,
being duly sworn says, that he is the agent (or
at.torney, &c., as the case may he,) of the plaintiff named in the foregoing bill, or of the defendant named in the foregoing answer, and
that he knows the contents thereof; that the facts and allegations
therein contained are true except such as are therein stated upon
information and belief, and that as to such allegations he believes
them to be true.
C--D---:---, aqen! (or attorney.)"

43. In any suit a defendant may, in the vacation of the court,
confess a judgment or decree in the clerk's office, for so much principal and interest as the plaintiff may be willing to accept a judgment or decree for. The same shall be entered of record by the clerk
in the order book, and be as final and as valid as if entered in court
on the day of such confession, except merely that the court shall
have such control over it as is given by section sixty of this chapter.

44. If a defendant who appears fail to plead, answer or demur to
the declaration or bill, a rule may be given him to plead. If he fail
to appear at the rule day at which the process against him is returned executed, or when it is returnable to a term, at the first rule
day after it is so returned, the plaintiff, if he has filed his declaration or bill, may have a conditional judgment or decree niBi as to
such defendant. No service of such decree niei or conditional judgment shall be necessary. But at the next rule day after the same is
entered, if the defendant continue in default, or at the expiration of
any rule upon him with which he fails to comply, if the case be in
equity, the bill shall be entered as taken for confessed as to him,
and if it be at law judgment shall be entered against him, with an or-
der for the damages to be enquired into, when such enquiry is proper.

45. There need be no such enquiry in an action for debt npon BDY,
bond or other writing for the payment of money, or against the
drawer or endorsers of a bill of exchange or negotiable note or in an
action of debt or eeire faeias upon a judgment or recognizance.

46. Every judgment entered in the clerk's office in a case wherein
there is no order for an. enquiry of damages, and every non-suit or
dismission entered therein, shall, if not previously set aside, become
a final judgment of the last day of the next succeeding term of th~
court wherein the action, is pending. I~ the action in which such
judgment is entered be one for the recovery of money arising out
of contract and the plaintiff has filed with his declaration (whichin
all such cases he may do) an affidavit stating. that there is, as he
verily believes, due and unpaid from the defendant to him upon the
demand or demands stated in the declaration, including principal"
and interest, after deducting all payments, credits and sets-off made
by the defendant, and to which he is entitled, a sum certain to be
named in the affidavit, no plea shall be filed in the case either
at ru les or in court, unless the defendant shall file with the plea
his affidavit that there is not, us he verily believes, any sum due
from him to the plaintiff' upon the demand or demands stated in the
plaintiff's declaration, or stating a sum certain less than that stated
in the affidavit of the plaintiff, which, as he verily believes, is ·all
that is due from him to the plaintiff upon the demand or demands stated in the plaintiff's declaration. If such plea and affidavit be not filed judgment shall he entered for the plaintiff' by the
court for the sum stated in his affidavit, with interest thereon from
the <late of the affidavit till paid. And if such plea and affidavit be
filed hy the defendant and it be admitted in such affidavit that any
such sum is due from the defendant to the plaintiff, judgment may
be taken by the plaintiff for the sum so admitted to be due, with interest thereon from the date of the plaintiff' 's affidavit till paid, and:
the case tried as to the residue. If the plaintiff nus not filed such:
affidavit with his declaration; and the office judgment in the case
be nut set aside, the judgment shall not be entered by the court until the plaintiff files such affidavit or proves his ease in open court,
and the judgment in either case shall be entered as heretofore provided for. If the case be one arising out of con truet in which there
is an order for an enquiry or damages, and the plaintiff has filed
with his declaration the affidavit hereinbefore mentioned, no plea
shall be filed in the cuse either at rules or in court, unless the defen ..
dant shall file therewith the affidavit hereinbefore required to set
aside an office judgment in which no order for an enquiry of damages had been made. When a jury is impaneled to execute an order for an enquiry of damages their oath shall be that they will well
and truly find the amount, if .any, which the plaintiff is entitled to
recover in the action, and a true verdict render according to the evidence. And the affidavit of the plaintiff" hereinbcfore mentioned
shall be legal evidence on such enquiry.

47. If a defendant against whom a judgment is entered in the
office, whether an order for an enquiry of damages has been made
therein or not, shall, before the end of the term at which it becomes
final, appear and plead to issue, and shall, in the cases mentioned in
the next preceding section in which an affidavit is required, file such
affidavit with his plea, the judgment shall be set aside, but if the
judgment has been entered up in court or the order for an enquiry of
damages has been executed, it shall not be s~t aside without good
cause be shown therefor.
Any such issue may be tried at the same
term, unless the defendant show by affidavit, filed with the papers,
good cause for a continuance. But the plaintiff shall have the right
to cross-examine the defendant upon the matters contained in such
affi.rl a vit,

48. Although a bill be taken for confessed as to any defendant,
the plaintiff' may have an attachment against him, or an order for
him to be brought in to answer interrogatories.
No plea or demurrer shall be received after such attachment, unless by order of
court, upon motion.

49. If a defendant, after process of contempt, put in an answer
which is adjudged insufficient, the plaintiff may go on with the subsequent process of contempt, as if no answer had been filed, or, at the
option of the plaintiff', if the bill be verified, the court may thereupon render such decree in the case as may be just.

50. A plaintiff in equity may, at or after the rule day at which
the bill ia taken for confessed as to any defendant, or at which his
answer is filed, have the cause set for hearing &8 to such defendant;
and it may he so set for hearing on the answer, or upon a geueral
replication thereto, as the plaintiff may prefer. If two months
elapse after the answer of a defendant is filed, without the case being
so set and without exceptions being filed to his answer, he may have
the case set for hearing as to himself.

51. If a snit in equity he set for hearing as to any defendant, it
shall be heard as to him, unless his interests be so connected with
those of other defendants in the suit, that it would he improper to
decide upon their interests separately. And though there be such
eouneetion, a defendant as to whom the ease bas been set for hearing
may have an order upon the plaintiff to use due diligence to mature
the cause for hearing as to the other defendants, and, unless it be so
matured within such time as the court may deem reasonable, shall
be entitled to a bearing or dismission of it as to him.

52. Where, in an action or suit against two or more defendants,
tbe proces~ is served upon part of them, the plaintiff may proceed
to judgment as to any so served, and either discontinue it as to the
others, or from time to time, as the process is served as to such others, proceed to judgment as to them until judgments be obtained
against all.

53. At any time before final decree a defendant may file his answer, but a cause shall not be sent to the rules or continued, because
an answer is filed in it, unless good cause be shown by affidavit, filed
with the papers therefor.

54. When a plaintiff in equity files exceptions to an answer, the
exceptions shall at once be set for argument.

55. When exceptions to an answer have been sustained, if the defendant pnt in a second answer, which is adjudged insufficient, he
may be examined upon interrogatories and committed until he
answers them.

56. When a plea is oftered in any action or suit, which is not sufficient in law to constitute a defense therein, the plaintiff may object to the filing thereof on that grouod, and the same 'ahall be rejected. But if the court overrule the objection and a1low the plea
to be filed, the plaintiff may take issue thereon without losing the
benefit of the objection, and may, on an appeal from a judgment
rendered in the case in favor of the defendant, avail himself of the
error committed in allowing such plea to be filed, without excepting
to the decision of the court thereon.

57. When a defendant in equity in his answer alleges new matter constituting a claim to affirmative relief, the case shall be decided upon the same principles, and the same relief shall be decreed
in the case, as if a cross bill had been filed to obtain such relief.

58. Whenever in any case a complete determination of the controversy cannot be had without the presence of other parties, the
court may cause them to be made parties to the action or suit by
amendment.

59. When a defendant in equity shall, in his answer, deny any
material allegation of the bill, the eff'ect of such denial shall only be
to put the plaintiff on satisfactory proof of the truth of such allegation, and any evidence which satisfies the court or jury of the truth
thereof shall be sufficient to establish the same.

60. The court shall have control over all proceedings in the office
during the preceding vacation. It may reinstate any cause discontinued during such vacation, set aside any oftheproceedingsorcorrect any mistake therein, and make such order concerning the same
as may be just.

61. A d-c'uration or count on a policy of insurance, whether the
-policy be under seal or not, may be in effect as follows:
· "'A-B-complains of C-D--,
who has been summoned to answer this: For that the defendant, by virtue of the
policy of insurance herewith filed, (or a copy of which is herewith
filed.) owes, (here state the amount claimed under the policy,) to the
plaintiff for loss in respect to the property (or subject) insured by
said policy, caused by (here insert the cause of loss in general terms,
for example: by fire, by the damages of navigation, or otherwise,
according to the faet.) on or about the -day of--,
in the year
--,
at (or near to
, stating the place at or near to which
.the loss occurred.")
If the declaration or. count be on a life policy, then it shall be
sufficient to follow the above form in effect down to and including
the word " plaintiff," and add thereto in effect as follows :
"Because of the death of E. F., whose life was insured by said
policy, and who died on or about the -day of --,
in the ~·ear
--,
at (or near to, stating the place where his death occurred,)
.--,"
or, if the fact be so, the plaintiff may state in the declaration
.or count that the time or place where the loss or death occurred is
unknown to him, giving in general terms such information as may
he in his power in respect thereto. Nothing contained in this section shall render insufficient in law any declaration, or count which
would be sufficient if this section had not been passed.

62. If good cause therefor be shown or appear, the court or judge
in vacation, may order the plaintiff to file a more particular statement, in any respect, of the nature of his claim, or the facts expected to be proved at. the trial, and may, stay the action until a reasonable time after such order is complied with; and such statement
must be made under the oath of the plaintiff, bis officer, agent, or
attorney-at-law, to the effect that the affiant believes the same will
be supported by evidence at the trial. But no such order shall be
made if it appear that there has been unreasonable delay on the part
of the defendant in applying therefor.

63. In like manner, if good cause therefor appear, and there be
no unreasonable delay on the part of the plaintiff in applying for
such order, the court or judge, in vacation, may order the defend·
ant to file a more particular statement, in any respect of the nature
of his defense, or the tacts expected to be proved at the trial, which
statement shall be m: .le under the oath of the defendant, his officer,
age:it or attorney-at-law, to the effect that the affiaot believes the
same will be supported by evidence at the trial.

64. To any declaration or count on a policy of insurance, whether
the same be in the form prescribed by the sixty-first section of this
chapter or not, and whether the act ion be covenant, debt or assump·
Bit, the defendant may plead that he is not liable to the plaintiff as
in i-l declaratiou is alleged. But if in any action on a po1icy of
in=urur.ce, the defense be that the action cannot be maintained because oi the failure tu perform or eomply with, or violation of any
clause, condition or warranty in, upon or annexed to the policy, or
contained in or upon any paper which is made by reterence a part of
the policy,,the defendant must file a statement in writing specifying
by reference thereto, or otherwise, the particular clause, condition
or warranty iu respect to- which such failure or violation is claimed
to have occurred, and such ·statement must be verified by the oath
of the defendant, his officer, agent or attorney-at-law, to the effect
that the affiant believes the matter ot defense therein stated will be
supported by evidence at the trial.

65. Upon the plea mentioned in the next preceding section, the
plaintiff may join issue without other pleading. But if the plaintiff
intends to rely upon any matter in waiver, estoppel or in confession
and evidence of any matter which may have been stated by the defendant as aforesaid, the plaintiff must file 11. statement in writing,
specifying in general terms the matter on which he intends so to rely;
and such statement must be verified by the oath of the plaintiff, his
agent or attorney-at-law, to the effect the affiant believes the matter of reply therein stated will be supported by evidence at the trial.

66. If either party to such action fail to file any statement required of him by the four preceding sections of this chapter or by the
other party pursuant to any of the provisions of the said sections, or
if the statement be adjudged insufficient in whole or in part, the
court, as justice may require, may grant further time for filing the
same, or permit the statement filed to be amended, or may, at the
trial, exclude the evidence offered by the party in default as to any
matter which he has so failed to state or has insufficiently stated. But
no statement which, in the particulars required by or under the said
sections to be stated or referred to therein, is sufficient to notify the
adverse party in effect of the nature of the claim or defense intended
to be set up against him, shall be adjudged insufficient.

2. All acts and parts of acts coming within the purview of this
act, and inconsistent therewith, are hereby repealed.

1. In any action of debt, the defendant may plead payment of the
debt, (or of so much as is due by the condition,) before action
brought.

2. Io any personal action; the defendant may pay into court, to
the clerk, a sum of money on account of what is claimed, or by way
of compensation or amends, and plead that be is not indebted to the
plaintiff (or that the plaintiff has not sustained damages,) to a
greater amount than the said sum.

3. The plaintiff may accept the said sum either in full satisfaction and then have judgment for his costs, or in part satisfaction, and
reply to the plea generally, and if issue thereon be found for the
defendant, judgment shall be given for the defendant, and he shall
recover his costs.

4. In a suit for any debt, the defendant may at the trial prove,
and have allowed against such debt, any payment or set-cff which is
so described in his plea, or in an account filed therewith, as to give
the plaintiff notice ot its nature, but not otherwise.
Although the
claim of the plaintiff be jointly against several persons, and the setoff is of a debt, not to all, hut only to a part. of them, this section
shall extend to such set-off, if it appear that the persons against
whom such claim is, stand in the relation of principal and surety and
the person entitled to the set-off is the principal. And when the
defendant is allowed to file and prove an account of set-off' to the
plaintiff's demand, the plaintiff shall be allowed to file and prove
an account of counter set-off, and make such other defense as he
might have made had an original action been brought upon such setotf, and in the issue, the jury, judge, or justice shall ascertain the
true state of indebtedness between the parties, and judgment be
rendered accordingly.

5. In any action on a contract, the defendant may fHe a plea
alleging any such failure in the consideration of the contract, or
fraud in its procurement, or any such breach of any warranty to
· him of the title to real property or of the title or the soundness of
personal property, for the price or value whereof he entered into the
contract, as would entitle him, either to recover damages at law
from the plaintiff, or the person under whom the plaintiff claims, or
to relief in equity, in whole or in part, against the obligation of the
contract; or if the contract be by deed, alleging any such matter
existing before its execution, or any such mistake therein, or in the
execution thereof, as would entitle him to such relief in equity; and
in either case alleging the amount to which he is entitled by reason
of the matters contained in the plea. Every such plea shall be verified by affidavit.

6. If a defendant entitled to such plea as is mentioned in the preceding section shall not tender it, or though he tender it, if it be
rejected for not being offered in due time, he shall not be precluded
from such relief in equity as he would have been entitled to if the preceding section had not heen enacted. If an issue in fact is joined on
such plea and the same be found against the defendant, be shall be
barred of relief in equity upon the matters alleged in the plea, unless
upon such ground as would entitle a party to relief against a judgment in other eases, Every such issue 'in fact shall he upon a general replication that the plea is not true; and the plaintiff may give
in evidence, on such issue, any matter which could be given in evidence under a special replication, if such replication were allowed.

7. Nothing in this chapter shall impair or affect the obligation o{
any bond or other deed deemed voluntary in law upon any party
thereto or his representatives.

8. If the defendant file a plea or account of set-off' which covers
or applies to part of the plaintiff's demand, judgment may be forthwith rendered for the part not controverted, and the costs accrued
until the filing of the plea or account and the case shall be proceeded with for the residue as if the part for which judgment was
rendered had not been included therein. And if, in addition to
such plea or account, the defendant plead some other plea, going
to the whole or residue of the demand, the case shall not be continued as to the part not controverted by plea or account of setoff's, unless the additional plea be also verified by affidavit, or good
cause be shown for such continuance.

9. A defendant who files a plea or account under this chapter
shall be deemed to have brought an action against the plaintiff (at
the time of filing the same), for the matters mentioned in such plea
or account, and the plaintiff' shall not, after the plea or account ts
filed, dismiss his case without the defendant's consent, but shall be
entitled to every ground of defense against the defendant's demand, of
which he might have availed himself by special plea or otherwise in
any action brought against him upon the same demand. On the
trial of the issue in such case, the jury shall ascertain the amonnt to
which the defendant is entitled, and apply it as a set-oft against the
plaintiff's 'demand, and if the said amount be more than the plaintiff
is entitled to, shall ascertain the amount of the excess, including
principal and interest. Judgment in such case shall be for the
defendant against the plaintiff for said excess, with interest from the
date of the judgment till payment.

1. That in any action or suit or other proceeding for the enforcemeut of any contract, express or implied, where such contract was
for the sale or purchase of any real or personal property, made or
entered into between the first day of May, 186·1, and the first day of
May, 1865, it shall be lawful for either party to show by parol
or relevant testimony, what was the true understanding and agreement of the parties thereto, either express or to be implied, in respect to the kind of currency in which the same was to be fulfilled
or performed, or with reference to which, as a standard of value, it.
was made or entered into; and in an action at law or suit in equity
it shall be necessary to plead the agreement specially, in order to
admit such evidence.

2. Whenever it shall appear that any such contract was according
to the true understanding and agreement of the parties, to be fulfilled
or performed in Confederate States treasury notes, or Virginia treasury notes, or was entered into with reference to such notes as a
standard of value, the same shall be liquidated and settled by reducing the nominal amount due or payable 'under such contract in
Confederate States treasury notes or Virginia treasury notes, to its
true value at the time they were respectively made and entered iuto,
or at such other time as may to the court, or, if it be a jury case, to
the jury seem right in the particular case, and upon the payment of
the value as ascertained, the party bound by such contract shall be
forever discharged, of and from the same, provided that in all cases
where actual payment has been made of any sum of such Coufederate States treasury notes, or Virginia treasury notes, either in ful 1
or in part, of the amount payable under contract, the party by or
for whom the same was paid, shall have full credit for the nominal
amount as paid, and such payment shall not be reduced. Andi f any
debt payable in coin, or its equivalent, by a principal debtor has
been paid by the security for such debt, under and by virtue of a
judgment against such security, or other demand for payment npon
such security, so that such payment shall operate as a discharge of
the principal debtor from his original obligation under the provisions of this act, in any controversy between such security so paying
and the principal debtor, the mode of payment by such security shall
not be inquired into.]

1. Where a party dies, or becomes convict of felony, or insane, or
the powers of a party who is a personal representative or committee cease, if such fact occur after verdict, judgment may be entered ·
as if it had not occurred.

2. Where such fact occurs in any stage of a cause, whether it be
in a court of original or appellate jurisdiction, it it occur as to any
of several plaintiffs or defendants, the suit may proceed for or
ag-ainst the others, it the cause or snit survive to or against them.
If a plaintiff or defendant die pending any action, whether the cause
of action would survive at common law or not, the same may be revived and prosecuted' to judgment and execution in the same manner
as if it were for a cause of action arising out of contract.
3. If, in any case of appeal, writ of error, or supcrsedeas, which
is now or may hereafter be pending, there be at any time in an appellate court, suggested or relied on in abatement, the death of a
party, or any other fact which, if it had occurred after verdict in an
action, would not have prevented judgment being entered (as if it
had not occurred), the appellate court may, in its discretion, enter
judgment or decree in such case as if the said fact had not occurred.
4. In any stage of any case a seire facias may be sued out for or
against the committee of any party who is insane or a convict; or
for or against a party before insane, the powers of whose committee
have ceased ; or for or against the personal representative of the decedent who, or whose personal representative, was a party; or for
or against the heirs or devisees of a decedent who was a party; or

Digitized by

Google

CHAPTER

715

ex xv II.

for the assignee or beneficiary party, t,_, show cause wh. th: suit
should not proceed in the name of him or them. Or \·, 1:vr1; the
party dying, or whose powers cease, or such insane person or ,·on vict,
ii; plain ti IJ or appellant, the person or per:;ons (or whom sucu scire
facias might be sued out, may, without notice or ecire facias, move
that the suit proceed in his or their name. In the former case, after
service of the scire facias, or in the latter case, on such motion if no
sufficient cause be shown against it, an order shall be entered that
the suit proceed according to such scire facias or motion. Any
such new party (except in an appellate court) may have a continuance of the case at the term at which such order is entered ; and the
court may allow him to plead anew or amend the pleadings as far
as it deems reasonable ; but in other respects the case shall proceed
to final judgment or decree for or against him, in like manner as if
the case had been pending for or against him before such ecire facias
or motion.
5. The clerk of the court in which the case is may issue such scire
[acias at any time, and an order may be entered at rules for the case
to proceed in the name of the proper party, although the case be on
the court docket.
6. Where the party whose powers cease is defendant, the plaintiff'
may continue his suit against him to final judgment or decree; but
he shall not, at law, proceed in the same action against such defendant and his successor, nor shall he, in equity, proceed against both
upon his previous hill, unless an order that the suit proceed against
the former party, be entered at the first term after service of a seire
facias for or against such successor.
7. If the committee, personal representative, heirs, or devisees of
the plaintiff or appellant who was a party, or of the decedent whose
personal representative was plaintiff or appellant, shall not make
such motion 01 apply for such seire [acias at or before the second
term of the court next after that at which there may have been a
suggestion on the record of the fact making such scire [aeias or motion proper, the suit of such plaintiff or appellant shall he discontinued, unless good cause be shown to the contrary.
8 . .Any court, in which is pending any case wherein for more than
four years there has been no order or proceeding but to continue it,
may, in its discretion, order such case to be struck from its docket;
and it shall thereby be discontinued. A court making such order
may direct it to be published in such newspaper as it may name.
9. When in any suit in equity, the number of parties exceeds
thirty, and any one of said parties, jointly interested with others in
any question arising therein, shall die, the court may nevertheless
proceed, if in its opinion all classes of interest in the case are represented, and the interest. of no one will be prejudiced by the trial of
the cause, to render a decree in such suit as if such person were
alive, decreeing to the heirs at law, distributees, or representatives of
such person, as the case may require, such interest as such person

Digitized by

Google

•

716

CHAPTER

CXXIX.

would have been entitled to, had such person been alive at the date
of the decree.
10. The provisions of the fourteenth section of chapter one bun·
dred and twenty-four shall apply to decrees entered under the preceding section.
11. (Acts 1882, p. 95.) Any circuit court may, on motion, reinstate on the trial docket of the court any case dismissed and set aside
any non-suit that may be entered by reason of the non-appearance
of the plaintiff, within three terms after the order of dismissal may
ha ve hr-en marle, or order of non-snit entered.
12. (ih.) All causes in which orders of dismissal have been made,
or orders of non-snit entered, which orders have been set aside and
causes reinstated, shall remain upon the docket, and be proceeded
with in the same manner as if the order had never been made; Provided, that no such cause shall be brought to trial, or proceeded in,
until the defendant therein shall have had at least thirty days personal notice in writing, or it he be a non-resident, by the publication
of such notice once in each week for four successive weeks, in some
newspaper designated by the court, that said cause has been reinstated on the docket.

CHAPTER CXXVIII.
OF THE REMOVAL OF CAUSES PENDING IN ONE COURT TO A NOTH EB.

1. On the motion of any party to a suit in a circuit court, the said
court may, for goocl cause shown, order it to he removed to any other
circuit court. The judge of said court, in vacation, m:,y make
such order, after reasonable notice to the adverse party. The order
of removal may be made by the court or judge without motion or
notice, when the judge is so situated as to render it improper,
in his judgment, for him to decide, or to preside at the trial of the
cause.
2. When any suit is ordered to be removed under the preceding
section, the clerk of the court from which, shall transmit to the clerk
of the court to which it is removed, the original papers therein, with
the copies of all rules and orders made, and a statement of the costs
incurred by each party therein; whereupon the case shall be proceeded in, heard and determined by the court to which it is removed
as if it had been brought, and the previous proceedings had, in said
court. The costs attending such removal sha11 be charged as may
be thought just by the court from which, or if it make no order on
the subject, by the court to which the case is removed.

CHAPTER CXXIX.
(Acl.8 1882, p. 108.)

APPOINTMENT 01'' COMM ISSJONERS IN CHANCERY, AND PROCEEDINGS ON A~
COUNTS REFERRED TO THEM.

I. Each circuit court and every court of Iimited jurisdiction now
existing or which may hereafter be established for any incorporated

Digitized by

Google

'Z17

CHAPTER CXXIX.

city, town or village, may from time to time appoint not more than
four commissionees in chanoery, or for stating accounts, who shall
be removable at its pleasure, with power to take depositions and to
swear and examine witnesses and to certify their testimony. The
judge of any court empowered to appoint commissioners in chancery,
or for stating accounts, may iu vaeation appoint such commissioners
with as much effect as if appointed by the court, and they shall have
the like powers.
2. Every such eommissioner, before proceeding to act, shall take
an oath faithfully nod impartially to discharge lfls duties.
3. Accounts to be taken in any case shall be referred to a commission so appointed to be named in the decree or order, unless the
parties interested agree that they be referred to some other person.
In case all the commissioners of a court, appointed under section
one of this chapter, are by reason of interest or otherwise incapacitated to act, and the parties interested fail to agree on a person to
whom the reference may be made, the court may direct a reference
to some other person. Every eommissioaer shall examine aod report
npon such accounts and matters as may be referred to him by any
court, and such report may be recommitted to said commissioner, or
to any other, for other and final reports.
4. The court ordering au account to be taken may direct that notice of the time and place of taking the same lie published once a
week for four successive weeks in some newspaiwr published in the
county ; and if none be so published, then in some newsuaper having a general circulation in the couuty, and by posting a copy of the
same at the front door of the court-house or" said county, at least
twenty days before the taking of the accounts; or the court may
dispense with the publication, and rt-quire the notice to be posted at
the front door of the court-house of said county, and at least four
other public places in said county twenty 'days before the time set for
taking the account; such publication and posting, or such posting
alone, shall be equivalent to personal service on the parties or any
of them.
•
5. The judge of a circuit court, or of a court of limited jurisdiction for any incorporated city, town or village, may, in vacation, or
in term time, though the case be not npoo the court docket make
an order in any cause pending in his court at any time after process
has been duly served on the defendants Qr such of them as may appear to be interested in the subject matter upon which the commissioner is to report, or at any time after such defendants have entered
their appearanee in said cause, referring the same to a commissioner
for the purpose
stating any proper account or reporting upon any
matter which it is proper there should be a commissioner's report in
said cause. But no such order of refereooe shall be made in any
cause until reesonable notice in writing has been served upon the
opposite party or his attorney, of the ti.me and place of making said
motion.
·

of

Digitized by

Google

718

CHAPTER CXXIX.

6. A commissioner who doubts as to any point which arises before him, in taking an aooount to be returned to any court, may in
writing submit the point to such court, or the judge thereof, who
may instruct him thereon.
7. A commissioner
may adjourn his proceedings from time to
time after the day to which notice was given (without any new notice,) until his report is completed, and when it is completed, unless
it is otherwise ordered by the court, or agreed by the parties, he shall
retain it ten days fortheir examination, Any party without being at
the expense of taking a copy may inspect the report and file exceptions
thereto; and the commissioner shall, with his report, return the exceptions, and such remarks thereon as he may deem pertinent, and the
evidence relating thereto. But any party may except to such report at
the first term of the court'to which it is returned, or by leave of court
after said term. In an exception it shall he sufficient to state the
item or part of the report to which objection is made; but the court
may, nevertheless, if good cause therefor appear, require the exception to he made more specific, or the j?:rounds thereof to be stated
therein, and may overrule or disregard such exception if the requisition he not complied with.
.
8. With his report the commissioner shall return the decrees,· orders and notices under which he acted.
He shall not copy in his
account or report any paper; and if there has been a previous account, he shall not copy it into his report, but taking it as the basis
of his, COlf'ect the errors and supply the defects thereof by an arlditional statement.
Everything improperly copied into a commissioner's account shall be expunged at his costs on the application of
either party; and H on account of his negligence or misconduct a
report he recommitted, he shall bear the costs occasioned thereby.
He shall immediately after the adjournment of each term of the
court, proceed to take all accounts referred to him by any order or
decree of the court, and all adjournments and postponements of the
taking of any account shall be for good cause, to he shown by the
affidavit of the party making the application, which. shall be filed
with the papers in the cause and if the commissioner unreasonably
delays lris report, he shall receive no compensation for the same.
9. A cause may be heard upon a commissioner's report at anv
time after it is returned, and the court may, for good cause shown
by any party interested, hear a cause on a commissioner's report returned after the commencement of the term of court at which such
hearing is desired to be had, but the court in this latter case may require the party desiring the hearing to give reasonable notice to the
opposite party or to his attorney.
10. At law in any case in which it may be deemed necessary, the
court may direct any such commissioner or other competent person,
either before or at the time of trial to take and state an account be·
tween the parties, which account, when thus stated, shall be deemed
p,·ima faeie correct, and may be given in evidence to the court or

Di itized by

Google

CHAPTER

719

CXXX.

inry tryiug the case, and the commissioner or other person shall be
allowed for such services the same fees that would be allowed a com-.
missioner for similar services, to be taxed in the bill of costs.
ACTS REPEALED.

2. All acts and parts of ·acts coming within the purview of this
act, and inconsistent therewith, are hereby repealed.
CHAPTER

CXXX.

(ACIII 1882, p, 538.)

l'F EVIDENCE.
PROCEEDINOS OF THE LEGISLATURE AND SIGNATURE OF GOVERNOR OR JCDGES.

1. Acts and resolutions of the legislature, though local or private,
may he given in evidence without being specially pleaded ; and an,
appellate court shall take judicial notice of such as appear to ha Ye
been relied on in the court below.
2. Copies of the journal of either house of the legislature, printed
by authority of the legislature, shall be received as evidence for any
purpose for which the original journal could be received.
3. All courts and officers shall take notice of the signature of any
of the judges, or of the governor of this state to any judicial or official documents.
COPIES OF CERTAIN DEEDS EVIDENCE;

RECOHDS AND PAPERS IX

PUBLIC OFFICES.

4. Copies of deeds, acknowledged or proved and certified according to the act of the general assembly of Virginia, of the thirteenth
of December, one thousand seven hundred and ninety-two, and·
placed upon record after the expiration of two years, the period prescribed hy the act of the twenty-fifth of December, one thousand seven
hundred and ninety-four, but before the pa8snge of the act of the
seventh of February, one thousand eight hundred and fourteen,
shall be received in evidence, and have all the force and effect of'
copies of deeds recorded within two years, the period prescribed as
aforesaid ; Provided, That nothing in this section shall be construed
to affect the rights of creditors and subsequent purchasers without
notice.
5. A copy of any record or paper in the clerk's office of any court,
or in the office of the secretary of state, treasurer or auditor, or in
the office of surveyor of lands of any county, attested by the of-'
ficer in whose office the same is, may be admited as evidence in lieu'
of the original. The certificate of the auditor of the fact and time
of the return of any real estate as delinquent, or of the sale thereof
for taxes, shall be prima faeie evidence of what is stated in snch
certificate. Any Ruch copy or certificate purporting to be sealed;

Digitized by

Google

720

CHAPTER

CXXX.

or signed and sealed, or signed alone, by any such officer, may be
admitted as evidence without any proof of the seal or signature, 01·
of the official character of the person whose name is signed to it.
The certificate of the auditor of the payment or uon-payment at any
time of taxes on forfeited or delinquent lands or of their not having
been entered on the books of the assessor of the county or counties
wherein the same w~re chargeable with taxes, shall, in any suit
in relation to such lands, be prima faoie evidence of what is stated in
such certificate, provided it be filed with the papers of said suit and
notice thereof be given to the opposite party or his attorney at least
twenty days before the first day of the term at which it is to be offered
as evidence. When the certificate purports to be signed by the said
auditor, it may be admitted as evidence without proof of his signature.
[5a. See Acts 1872-3, ch. 201t a.s follows :
1. That the certificate of the clerk of any county court of the entry
or non entry of any tract of land for taxation on the books of the
commissioner of the revenue or assessor of any county wherein the land ought to have been charged or of the delinquency
of any eueh land for the non-payment of taxes charged thereon, and the amount of the taxes charged as delinquent shall in
any suit in relation to such Janda he prima facie evidence of what is
stated in such certificate: Provided, it be filed with the papers of
said snit and notice thereof given to the opposite partv or his attorney, at least twenty days before the first day of the term at which
it is to he offered as evidence. When a certificate purports to be
signed by any such clerk, it may be admitted as evidence without
proof of his signature.
2. This act shall be in force from its paseage.]
6. Such a copy of any writing filed in a suit, may be filed in another suit on the same writing, and the defendant shall plead thereto
as if the original were filed.
7. The provisions in the two preceding sections contained shall
apply to a copy of any record or paper in the clerk's office of any
any court in the state of Virginia, or in the office of the secretary
of the commonwealth, treasurer, register of the land office, or either
auditor, or any surveyor of lands of that state, attested as aforesaid ;
and to any certificate of the auditor of public accounts of that state
as to the return of ony real estate as delinquent, or bale thereof for
taxes, or payment or non-payment of taxes on forfeited or delinquent
lands, or non-entry of lands oo the books of the commissioners of
the revenue. · Provided, That such certificate of the auditor as to the
payment or non-payment of taxes on forfeited or delinquent lands,
or non-entry of such lands on the books of the commissioner of the
revenue, he filed with the papers in any suit in relation to such lands,
and notice thereof he given to the opposite party or his attorney, at
least forty days before the first day of the term at which it is to be
offered as evidence.

Digitized by

Google

CHAPTER

721

CXXX.

8. The court in the clerk's office whereof there is an original paper filed in a cause (although decided) may, for good cause, order it
to be delivered to any person, retaining in its stead a certified copy
thereof, and make any order to prevent the improper use of the
original.
9. The circuit or county court of any county may order any of
the hooks and records in the office of the surveyor of such county,
and any of its own books or records, to be bound or transcribed,
and shall make a reasonable allowance therefor, which shall be paid
out of the county treasury.
10. No such allowance shall be made for any transcript until commissioners appointed for the purpose by the courts shall have examined it and written at the foot thereof a certificate of its correctness, Thenceforth the same faith and credit shall be given to it that
the book or record transcribed would have been entitled to.
11. A court may have any of its books or records taken out of
the countv to be bound.
12. Where any books containing judgments, decrees, orders or
proceedings of a court, or proceedings at rules, is lost, and there can
be again entered correctly, by means of any writing, any matters
which were in such book, the court may cause its clerk to have such
matters re-entered, and such entries shall have the same effect as the
original entries.
13. Where any such book, or any book containing the record of
wills, deeds or other papers, or where any paper filed in a clerk's office is lost, the clerk in whose office such book or paper was, upon
the production to him of any original paper which was recorded in
the said book, or any attested copy of the record thereof, or of an
attested copy or anything else in such book, or of any paper AO
filed, shall, on application, record or file the same anew. Tho record shall show whether it is made trom an original or a copy, and
how the p21.per from which it is made was authenticated or attested.
Such record shall have primafacie the same effect that the record or
pnpers for which it is substituted would have had.
14. If, in any cause, the original papers therein, or any of them,
or the record for or in an appellate court, or any paper filed 01· con·
nected with such record, be lost, the court wherein the case is, or in
which, but for such loss, it would or ought to be, may docket the
same, and on affidavit of such loss, the cause may be proceeded in,
heard and determined, upon an authenticated copy of what is lost,
or proof of the contents thereof; or if' the cause be in an appellate
court, upon a new record made up from the records and papers of
the court below, and certified by the proper officer; or, in case the
record and papers, or any part thereof be lost or destroyed; the
· court below may, upon application of either party, upon reasonable
notice to the opposite party, supply such record or part thereof, from
the best evidence before it, either documentary or parol, which may
be used in the court of appeals for the same purposes that the orig-

Digitized by

Google

'122

CHAPTER

CXXX.

inal might be. The court may, however, at the instance of either
party, or in its discretion, require new pleadings to be made up in
whole or in part, and the plaintiff, instead of proceeding as hereinbefore provided for, may commence and prosecute a new suit for
the same matter ; and such new suit may, if the former suit was in
due time, be brought within one year after such loss notwithstanding the expiration of the time within which suit must otherwise
have been brought. If a cause has been decided and the original
papers therein have been lost, the court by which the case was decided, on affidavit of such loss, by some person interested therein and
who was a party in said suit, may re-docket said cause, and upon
motion of said affiant, and after reasonable notice to all parties interested in said cause, shall supply such lust papers or parts thereof,
by authenticated copies of the same or proof of the contents thereof, and the papers thus supplied shall have the same effect as the papers for which they are substituted would have had.
15. Where any book or paper is obliterated, defaced or injured
so as to be in whole or in part illegible, or is destroyed or carried
away and concealed, or is in the possession or control of armed rebels or a public enemy I it shall be deemed lost for the purposes ot
this chapter.
16. For anv services of the clerk under the twelfth section of
this chapter, ~nless rendered necessary by his own neglect, the court
shall allow him a reasonable compensation, which shall he chargeable to the county. For recording anew any will, deed or other paper, the clerk shall have the same fees as for the original record, to
be paid by the party on whose application such new record is made.
For replacing, as aforesaid, the original papers in any cause, or the
record in an appellate court, or supplying papers lost in cases decided, the costs and expenses shall be ascertained under the direction
of the court, and adjudged against any party or parties in the cause,
or divided among them as the court may, in its discretion, determine
to be equitable; and so, also, when new pleadings are ordered.
17. Any person desirous of proving the contents of any paper
filed in a clerk's office, or anything which was of record in any
book therein, may, if such paper or book be lost within the meaning
of this chapter, present to the circuit court of the county where such
paper or book was filed or kept, a petition specifying with reasonable certainty the nature of the paper or record, the contents of which
he desires to prove, and what persons may be affected by such proof.
Reasonable notice of the time and place of proceeding on such petition shall be given to the parties interested. Such notice may he
served as prescribed in I he first and second sections of chapter one
hundred nud twenty-one ot this code. If any person who may be
affected by the proof be an infant or insane person, or if it affect a
married woman in a case not relating to her separate property, a
guardian ad litem shall be appointed to attend to the case on his or
her behalf. Whereupon such court shall make an order referring

Digitized by

Google

CHAPTER

723

CXXX.

said petition to one of the commissioners of the court;who shall
take proof of the contents of such record or paper, and make report of same with the evidence taken by him to court. Said report
shall be filed in the office of the clerk of said court at least ten days
before it shall be acted upon by the court, when the court may confirm or recommit the same, or make any order in relation thereto
which may be necessary and proper. If said report is confirmed by
the conrt it shall be recorded in the book where the original paper
was or should have been recorded, or if it was a paper on file in the
office, shall be filed away where said paper was or should have been
filed, and such record or paper, when so made, shall in all cases be
prima facie evidence of what is stated therein, and after ten years
from 'the confirmation of such report shall be conclusive evidence of
what is stated therein.
18. Such court may, however, without notice or the appointment
of a guardian ad ldem, proceed on such petition _in accordance with
the preceding section and with like effect. Provided, That any person whose interests may be affected hy the proceedings under this
section, or who shall have been proceeded against by publication, or
the personal representative of any such, shall have the same rights,
as to a re-hearing, that may be allowed by law to non-resident defendants in actions at law or suits in equity.
RECORDS AND OFFWE BOOKS OUT OF THIS STATE.

19. The records and judicial proceedings of any court of the
United States, or of any state, territory or district, attested by the
clerk thereof, with the seal of the court annexed, it there be a seal,
and certified by the judge, chief justice or presiding magistrate of
such court, to be attested in due form, shall have such faith and
credit given to them in every court within this state, as they have in
the courts of the state, territory or district whence the said records
came.
20. A 11 records and exemplifications of office hooks kept in any
public office of the United States or of a state, not uppertniuing to a
court, shall be evidence in any court or office in th is state if attested
by the keeper of the said records or hooks and the seal of his office
annexed, if there be a seal, and certified hy the presiding justice of
the county or district in which such office is, or by the judge of a
court of record in such county or district, or by the governor, the
secretary of state, the chancellor, or the keeper of the great seal of
tne state, to be attested in due form, and by the proper officer. Such
certificate, it' given by the presiding justice of a court, shall be authenticated by the clerk or prothoootary of the said court, who shall
certify, under his haud and the seal of his office, that the said presiding justice is duly commissioned and qualified, or if the said certificate be given by the governor, the secretary of state, the chancellor, or keeper of the great seal, it shall he under the great seal of
the state in which said certificate is made.

Digitized

by<;;oogle

'134

CHAPTER

CXXX.

FOREIGN DEEDS, POWERS OF ATTORNEY, POLICIES OF
INSURANCE, ETC.

21. Every deed or power of attorney executed out of this state,
the acknowledgement or proof of which is certified so that it might
be admitted to record under chapter seventy-three of this code, and
every policy of insurance, charter party, copy from a record in any
foreign court, or from a register of births and marriages in any
place out of the United States, if it be attested by a notary public,
under his seal of office, that such policy, charter party, record or register was made, entered or kept in due form, according to the law of
the place in which it was made, entered or kept, and that such copy
is true, and the official character of such notary be certified to by
any court of record, or the mayor or other chief magistrate of any
county, city, town or borough, or under the great seal of the state,
kingdom, province, island or colony in which such notary may reside, shall be evidence in any court in this state.
COMPETENCY OF WITNESSES.
(Aa to penoo, charged with crime, eee ch. H2, sec. li.)

22. In any civil action, suit, or proceeding, the husband or wife
of any party thereto, or of any person in whose behalf any such action, suit or proceeding is brought, prosecuted, opposed or defended,
shall be competent to give evidence the same as any other witness
on behalf of any party to such action, suit or proceeding, except
that no husband or wife shall disclose any confidential communication made by one to the other during their marriage.
23. No person offered as a witness in any civil action, suit or proceeding shall be excluded by reason of his interest in the event of
the action, suit or proceeding, or because he is party thereto, except
as follows: No party to any action, suit or proceeding, nor any person interested in the event thereof, nor any person from, through or
under whom any such party or interested person derives any interest or title by assignment or otherwise, shall be examined as a witness in regard to any personal transaction or communication between
such witness and a person at the time of such examination, deceased,
insane or lunatic, against the executor, administrator, heir-at-law,
next of kin, assignee, legatee, devisee or survivor of such deceased
person or the assignee, or committee of such insane person or lunatic.
But this prohibition shall not extend to any transaction or communication as to which any such executor, administrator, heir-at-law,
next of kin, assignee, legatee, devisee, survivor or committee shall
be examined on bis own behalf, nor as to which the testimony of
such deceased person or lunatic, shall be given in evidence.
24. No person shall be incompetent as a witness on account of
.raee or color.
HOW WITNESSES COMPELLED TO TESTIFY.

25. A summons may be issued, directed as prescribed in the sec-

Digitized by

Google

725

CHAPTER CXXX.

ond section of chapter one hundred and twenty-four, commanding
the officer to summon any person to attend on the day and at the
place that such attendance is desired, to give evidence before a court,
grand jury, arbitrators, umpire, justice, surveyor, notary public, or
any commissioner
appointed hy a court. The summons may be
issued, if the attendance be desired at a court, by the clerk thereof;
if before a grand jury, by the prosecuting attorney or the clerk of
the court, at the instance· of the prosecuting attorney; and in other
cases, by any person before whom, or the clerk of the circuit court of
a county in which the attendance is desired; or, if it be desired before a justice, by such or any other justice.
It shall express on
whose behalf, and in what case, or about what matter, the witness is
to attend.
This section shall be deemed to authorize a summons to
compel attendance before commissioners- or other persons appointed
hy authority of another state, but only in case they be citizens of this
state, and the summons requires the attendance of a witness at a
place not ont of his county.
26. When it appears by -affldavit or otherwise that a writing or
document in the possession of any person not a party to the matter
in controversy is material and proper to be produced before the
court, or any person appointed by it or acting under its process or
authority, or any such person as is named in the preceding section,
such court, judge or president thereof in vacation, may order the
clerk of the said court to issue a subpoena duees tecum to compel such
production at a time and place to be specified in the order.
2i. If nny person, after being served with such summons, fail to
attend to give evidence or to produce such writing or document according to the summons, the court whose clerk issued the summons,
or if ,it was not issued by the clerk of a court, the circuit court of the
county in which the attendance is desired, or a judge of such court
in vacation, on a special report by the person or persons before
whom there was a failure to attend, on proof that there was paid to
him (if it was required,) a reasonable time before he was required
to attend, the allowance for one day's attendance, and his mileage
and tolls, shall, after service of a notice to, or rule upon him to show
cause against it (if 110 sufficient cause be shown against it,) fine him
not exceeding twenty dollars, to the use of the party for whom he
was summoned, and may proceed by attachment to compel him to
attend and ~ive his evidence at such time and place as it may deem
fit. The witness shall, moreover, be liable to any party injured for
damages.
28. If a person, after being served with such summons, shall attend and yet refuse to be sworn, or to give evidence, or to produce
any writing or document required, he may by order of the court,
whose clerk issued said summons, or of the person before whom he
was summoned to attend, be committed to jail, there to remain until
he shall, in custody of the jailer, give such evidence or produce such
writing or document.

Digitized by

Google

726

CHAPTER

CXXX.

29. Any person before whom a witness is to be examined may administer an oath to such witness.
INTERPRETERS.

30. Interpreters may be sworn truly to interpret, when necessary.
OF AFFIDAVITS AND DEPOSITWNS.

31. In any case in which an oath might be administered by, or an
affidavit made before, a justice, the same may be done by or before
a county commissioner, notary public, or a commissioner appointed
by the governor, or by a court or the olei k thereof; or in case of _a
survey directed by a court in a case therein pending, by or before
the surveyor directed to execute said order of survey. An affidavit
may also be made before any officer of another state or country authorized by its laws to administer an oath, and shall be deemed duly
authenticated if it be subscribed by such officer, and there be annexed to it a certificate of the clerk or other officer of a court of
record of such state or country, under an official seal, verifying the
genuineness of the signature of the first mentioned officer, and his
authoritv to administer an oath.
[3la. -(See Acts 1877, ch. 81, us follows:) 1. That any judge of
this state, whether a judge of a circuit court or of the supreme court
of appeals, may administer any oath that is, or may be, lawful for
any person to take, including oaths of office, and also may swear any
person to affidavit, and administer an oath to any per8on in any proceeding.
2. This act shall be in force from its passage.]
32. In any suit an affidavit that the witness or party resides out
of this state, or is out of it, shall be prima facie evidence of the fact
although such affidavit be made without previous notice. Where
anything is required by any statute to be published in a newspaper,
the certificate of the editor or publisher, or affidavit of any other
person shall be admitted as evidence of what is stated therein as to
the publication.
33. In any pending case the deposition of a witness, whether a
party to the suit or not, may, without any commission, be taken in
or out of this state by a justice or a notary public, or by a commissioner in chancery, or before any officer authorized to take depositions in the county or state where they may be taken, and if certified under his hand, may be received without proof of the signature
of such certificate.
34. On affidavit that a witness resides out of this state, or is out
of it in the service thereof, or of the United States, his deposition
may be taken by or before any commissioner appointed by the governor of this state, or any justice, notary public or other officer authorized to take dep. .sitions in the state wherein the witness may be
or if the deposition ii to be taken in a foreign country, by or before
such commissioner 01 commissioners as may be agreed upon by the
parties or appointed by the court, or if there be none such, by or be-

Digitized by

Google

727

CHAPTER CXXX.

fore any American minister, plenipotentiary, charged' ajfaireJJ, consul general, consul, vice consul, consular agent, vice deputy consular
agent, commercial agent or vice commercial agent, appointed by the
government of the United States, or by or before the mayor or other
chief magistrate of any city, town or corporation in such country or
any notary public therein. Any person or persons taking such depositions may administer an oath to the witness and take and certify
the deposition with his official seal annexed. and if he have none,
the genuineness of his signature shall be authenticated by some officer of the same state or country, under his official seal.
35. Reasonable notice shall be given to the adverse party of the
time and place of taking every deposition; and in a suit in equity a
deposition may be read if returned before the hearing of the cause,
although after an interlocutory decree, if it be as to a matter not
thereby adjudged, and be returned before a final decree.
36. A deposition in a case at law taken on such notice under the
three preceding sections, may be read in such case, if when it is offered, the witness be dead, or out of this state, or one of its judges
or in any public office or service the duties of which prevent his attending the court, or he unable to attend it from sickness or other
infirmity, or be out of the county in which the case is pending. But
when the only ground of reading a deposition is that the wituess is
out of the county, on motion to the court, before the commencement
of the trial it may, for good cause shown, require such witness to attend in person.
·
37. When a deposition has been filed, if not read on the trial by
the party taking it, it may be read-by the other party.
38. In any case wherein there has been a judgment, decree or
order from or to which an appeal, writ of error or supersedeas has
been or might be allowed, a deposition may be taken for any party
to such case, or for or against bis or her husband or wife, personal
representatives, heirs or devisees in like manner and by such persons as is before prescribed for pending cases; and it may be read in
any future trial that may be directed, if the same could properly be
read, had there been no such judgment, decree or order.
HOW TESTIMONY MAY BE PERPETUATED,

39. A person desirous of perpetuating the testimony of witnesses
as to a matter, whether a suit be pending in relation thereto or not,
may file with a commissioner in chancery of a court wherein, if
there were a bill to perpetuate the testimony, such bill might be
filed, a petition stating such matter, and what persons may be affected by the testimony. Whereupou the commissioner shall appoint for proceeding on the petition a time aud place, whereof reasonable notice shall be given to the persons who may be so affected.
If any of them be an .infant or insane person, the commissioner
shall appoint a guardian ad [item to attend on his behalf, who shall
be a practicing attorney in this state. At such time and place the

Digitized by

Google

7:28

CHAPTER CXXX.

commissioner shall take in writing the evidence of any witness adduced in respect to said matter·by the petitioner, or by the person so
affected.
He mav adjourn from time to time, and shall return a report of his proceedings, with the testimony taken by him, to the
clerk's office of the court by which he was appointed, and such testimonv shall have the same effect as if it had been taken on a bill
to perpetuate testimony.
Such court may make such order as to the
costs as may seem to it right.
ALLOWANCE TO WIT~ESSES FOR ATTENDANCE.

40. A person attending any court or other tribunal, under a summons or recognizance as a witness, shall receive one dollar for each
day's attendance and five cents per mile for each mile necessarily traveled to the place of attendance, and the same for returning, besides
the tolls at the bridges and ferries which he crosses or turnpike gates
he may pass. On his oath an entry of the sum he is entitled lo, and
for what, and hy what party it is to be pnid, shall be made ; when
the attendance is before either house or u committee of the legislature bv the clerk of such house or the chairman of such committee,
and in' other cases by the clerk of the court or other tribunal before
which, or by the person before whom, the witness attended.
A witness summoned or recognized to attend in several cases may have the
entry made against any one of the parties hy whom he is summoned,
or for whom he is sworn as a witness, but no witness shall be allowed for his attendance in more than one case at the same time.
But no compensation shall be allowed to a witness before a gran<i
jury.
This section shall not apply to witnesses before justices of
the peace.
41. The sum to which a witness is entitled shall be paid out of
the treasury in any case of attendance before either house or a committee of the legislature, and in any other case in which the attendance is for the state except where it is otherwise specially provided.
In all other cases it shall be paid by the party for whom the summons issued.
The payment shall be on a certificate of the person
required hy the preceding section to make the entry. The certificate shall express by letters, and not hy figures the separate amounts
to which the witness is entitled for his attendance, traveling, tolls
and fcrriages which he may have to pay, and the nggregate thereof.
~o clerk or other per:-.on authorized to make such entry, or give
such certiflcate shall become interested by purchase in :.rny claim
payable out of the public treasury, which by law he is authorized
to certify. And it. shall be the duty of such clerk, as soon as possible after the adjournment of any court, to make out a list of all
entries made on behalf of witnesses attending for the state, whose
fees are payable out of the treasury, and certify such list to the auditor.
Any dispute (before or after issuing the certificate) between
the witness and the party against whom his claim is made, as to its

Digitized by

Google

CHAPTER

CXXX.

justice or amount, may, when the case is in a court
tice, he determined
by such court or justice.

or before a jus-

4:Z. The court may restrict the taxation in the costs for witnesses
to so many as may be deemed just.
No entry for a witne-s shall ht·
made against a party recovering costs after execution has issued for
such party; and in no case shall there be an entry of' ;i witness for
attendance at a term after sixty days from the end of such term.
PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS.

43. In any case at law, upon a party making affidavit that a particular book of accounts, or other writing or paper, is important for
him to have in the trial of his cause, he may procure from the clerk
of the court in which the action is pending u subpoena duees iecum
requiring any party to theaction to appear before the court on a
day named therein, and bring with him and produce before such
court such book of accounts, or other writing or paper, as is specified in such process, in order tbat the same may be used as evidence
on the trial of the action ; and unless the person upon whom such
process is served shall, at the time specified therein, produce what j:,;
so required, or show to the satisfaction of the court that he has not
under his control such book, writing or paper, or unless, from an
inspection or otherwise, the court is of opinion that the character of
the hook, writing or paper is such as should not be used as evidence
on the trial of the action, the court may attach him and compel him
to produce the same.
It may also, if 1t see fit, set aside a plea of
such person and give judgment against him by default, if he he a
defendant, or, if he be a plaintiff, order his suit to be dismissed, with
costs, or if he be claiming a debt before such court or commissioner,
disallow such claims.
EFFECT OF PARTY'S AB..',ENCE FOR SEVEN YEARS.

44. If any person, who shall have resided in this state, go from
and do not return to the state for seven years successively, he shall
be presumed to be dead, in auy case wherein his death shall come
in question, unless proof be made that be was alive within that
time;
45. If the person so presumed to be dead be found to have been
living, any person injured hy such presumption shall he restored to
the rights of which he shall have been deprived by reason of such
presumption.
EXCLl.IDISG EVIDENCE FOR WANT OF PARTICULARS OF CLAD[
DEl!~EN"SE.

on

4H. In any action or motion, the court may order a statement to
be filed of the particulars of the claim, or of the ground of defense;
and if a party fail to comply with such order, may, when the case is
tried or heard, exclude evidence of any matter not described in the
notice, declaration, or other pleading of such party so plainly as to
give the ad verse party notice of its character.

Digitized by

Google

730

CHAPTER

CXXXI.

EVIDENCE IN MITIGATIOS OF DA.MAGES.

47. In any action for defamation the defendant may justify by alleging and proving that the words spoken or written were true, and
after notice in writing of his intention to do so (given to the plaintiff at the time of, or for, pleading to such action) may give in evidence in mitigation of damages, that he made or offered an apology
to the plaintiff: for such defamation before the commencement of the
action, or as soon atterwards as he had an opportunity of doing so,
in case action shall have been commenced before there was an opportunity of making or offering such apology. ·
ACTS REPEALED.

2. Al) acts and parts of acts coming within the purview of this
act, and inconsistent therewith, are hereby repealed.
CHAPTER CXXXI.
(Act11882, p, 341.)

OF THE

COt:RTMomTKlI~iNfJIJ:lE~?or~.~~os)sJRiR/.tk
:i~lil:.Y;

A~D Jt:DG-

OF THB (OURT DOCKET AND OJlDER IN WHICH CASF.8 ARE HEARIJ.

1. Before every term of a circuit court, the clerk shall make out a
docket of the following cases pending, to-wit: First. Cases of the
state; and, &condly. Motions and actions, in the order in which the
notices of the motions were filed, or in which the proceedings at
rules in the actions were terminated, docketing together as new
cases, those not on the docket at the previous term. He shall, under the control of the court, set the cases to certain days; and the
docket shall be called and the cases on it tried or disposed of for the
term in that order, except that the court may for good cause take
up any case out of turn.
2. Before every term of a circuit court the clerk shall make out a
separate docket of chancery cases in which there are motions, and
of other chancery cases which have been set for hearing as to any
party, or which the court is to hear upon a plea, demurrer or exceptions to an answer, and during such term every cause on said docket
shall be called and disposed of.
3. Any party asking the court to hear a case may, if the court refuse to hear it, have his application spread upon the record, with a
statement of the facts in relation thereto.
POWER OF COURT TO HAVE A TRIAL BY JGRY, OR INQUIRY OF
DAllAGES.

4. A circuit court wherein is pending a chancery case, in which
there is such a conflict in the evidence, as in the opinion of such
court, to render it proper, may direct an issue thereon to be tried in
such court or in any other circuit court. Although the verdict on
such issue may be set aside, there shall be no new trial thereof, but.
the court may proceed to decree as if no issue had been directed. No

Digitized by

Google

,

CHAPTER

731

CXXXI.

issue out of chancery shalJ be directed in any other case. Nothing
in this section contained shall be construed to conflict with any of
the provisions of chapter seventy-seven of this eode.,
5. A circuit court may in any case before it, other than a chancery
case, have an issue tried, or au inquiry of damages made by a jury,
an<l determine all questions concerning the legality of evidence and
other matters of law which may arise. Upon the trial of any issue
or issues to a jury, whether under this section or not, the court may
on motion of any party, direct the jury, in addition to rendering a
general verdict, to render separate verdicts upon any one or more of
the issues, or to find in writing upon particular questions of fact to
be stated in writing. The action of the court upon such motion
shall be subject to review as in other cases. \Vhere any such sepa• rate verdict or special finding shall be inconsistent with the general
verdict, the former shall control the latter, and the court shall give
judgment accordingly.
· 6. At the next term after an order at the rules for an inquiry of
damages, the same may be tried and a final judgment rendered
therein, unless good cause be shown for a continuance. If a continuance be asked because of the absence of a witness, an affidavit must
be filed, if required by any party opposing, setting forth, in addition
to other·matters required in order to obtain a continuance, the name
of the witness and the testimony he is expected to give, and the affiant must, if required by any opposing party, submit to cross-examination in open court upon the matters set forth in such affidavit.
7. The court, in an action at law, if neither party require a jury,
or if the defendant has failed to appear, shall ascertain the amount
the plaintiff is entitled to recover in the action, if any, and render
judgment accordingly.
AMENDMENTS OF PLEADINGS AT THE TRIAL.

8. H at the trial of any action there appear to be a variance be
tween the evidence and allegations or recitals, tbe court may, if in
its opinion substantial justice will be promoted thereby, allow the
pleadings to be amended, and if it be made to appear that a continuance of the cause is thereby rendered necessary, such continuance
shall be granted at the costs of the party making the amendment.
BILL OF EXCEPTIONS-ARGUMENT

OF COUNSEL-NON-SUIT.

9. In the trial of a case at law in which a writ of error or supersedeas lies to the court of appeals, a party may except to any opinion of the court, and tender a bill of exceptions, which (if the truth
of the case be fairly stated therein) the judge shall sign, and it shall
be a part of the record of the case. If any judge refuse to sign
such bill of exceptions, he may l,e compelled to do so by the court
of appeals by mandamus; in which case the bill of exceptions shall
be a part of the record to the same extent as if it had been signed
by the judge at the proper time. A party may avail himself of any

Digitized by

Google

CHAPTER

cxxxr.

error, appearing on the record, hy which he is prejudiced, without
excepti ng thereto.
· .
10. Not morethan two counsel shall argue in a civil case on the
same side unless by leave oi the court, and the argument of each
counsel shall not occupy more than two hours, unless by like leave.
The court mav in its reasonable discretion still further limit the
time of argument on each side.
11. A party shall not be allowed to suffer a non ...suit, unless he do
so before the jury retire from the bar.
RJo:TIREME~T OF Jl1RY; VERDICT AND NEW TRIAL.

12. Depositions or other papers read in evidence may, by leave of
the court, be carried from the bar by tbe jury.
1:3. When there are several counts, one of which is faulty, the
defendant may ask the court to instruct the jury to disregard it; yet
if entire damages be given, the verdict shall be good.
14. The jury in any action founded on contract, may allow interest on the principal due, or any part thereof, and in all cases they
shall find the aggregate of principal and interest due at the time of
the trial, after allowing all credits, payment" and set-offs, and judgment shall be entered for such aggregate with interest from the date
of the verdict.
•
15. In any civil case, the court before which a trial by jury is had
may grant a new trial, unless it be otherwise specially provided. A
new trial may be granted, as well where the damages are too small
as where they are excessive. Not more than two new trials shall be
granted to the same party in the same cause.
16. When there is a recovery on a bond conditioned for the payment of money, as well as in all cases where a judgment or decree
is rendered or made for the payment of money, it shall be for the
aggregate of principal and interest due at the date of the verdict it
there be one, otherwise at the date of the judgment or decree, with
interest thereon from such date, except in cases where it is otherwise
provided.
17. In an action on an annuity bond, or a hond for money, payable by installments, where there are further payments of the annuity, or further installments to become due after the commencement
of the action, or in any other action for a penalty for the non-performance of any condition, covenant or agreement, the plaintiff may
assign as many breaches as he thinks tit. It there be judgment for
the plaintiff on a demurrer, or by confession, or hy default or nil
died, he may so assign after such judgment. The jury impaneled in
auy such action shall ascertain the damages sustained, or the sum due
by reason of the breaches assigned, including interest thereon to the
date of the verdict; and judgment shall be entered for what is so
ascertained, provided, that if the action be on such annuity bona, or a
bond for money, payable by installments, such judgment shall also
be for such further sums as may be afterwards assessed, or be found

Digitized by

Google

•

.•

733

CHAPTER CXXXII.

due upon a seire faeias, assigning a further breach. Such seire facias may be sued out from time to time by any person injured,
against. the defendant or his personal representative, and for what
may be assessed or found due upon the new breach or breaches assigned, execution may be awarded.
18. E,·ery judgment or decree for the payment of money, except
where it is otherwise provided by law, shall hear interest from the
date thereof, whether it be so stated in the judgment or decree or
not.
19. In an action founded on contract, against two or more defendants, although the plaintiff may be barred as to one or more of them,
yet he may have judgment against any other or others of the defendants against whom he would have been entitled to recover if he
had sued them only on the contract alleged in the declaration.
20. A judgment or decree against any person, as the personal
representative of a decedent, or committee of a convict or an insane person, for a debt due from such decedent, convict or insane
person, may, without taking an account of the transactions of such
representive or committee, be ordered to be paid out of the persona) estate of such decedent, convict or insane person, in, or which
shall come to, the hands of the representative or committee to be
administered.
When the court enters of record that if he had prudently discharged his duty, the suit or motion would not have been
brought or made, the judgment or decree, so far as it is for costs, shall
be ordered to be paid out of his own estate.
21. A circuit court, after the fifteenth day of its term, may make
a general order allowing executions to issue on judgments or decrees
after ten days from their date, although the term at which they are
rendered be not ended. For special cause it may, in any particular
case, except the same from such order, or allow an execution thereon at an earlier period.
ACTS REPEALED.

2. All acts and parts of acts coming within the purview of this
act, and inconsistent therewith, are hereby repealed.

CHAPTER CXXXII.
OF DECUEF..8 OF SALE; ORDERS FOR EXECUTING DEEDS OR APPOINTINli TRUSTEER; AND THE RESERVATION FOR INFANTS.

1. (Acts 1882, p. 444.) A court, in a suit properly therein, may
make a decree or order for the sale of property in any part of the
state, and may direct the sale to be for cash, or on such credit and
terms as it may deem best ; and it may appoint a special commissioner to make such sale. No special commissioner appointed by a
court shall receive money under a decree or order until he give
bond with good security, before the said court or its clerk, and any
special commissioner violating the provisions of this section by receiving money before executing bond as aforesaid, shall be deemed

Digitized by

Google

,
734

CHAPTER

CXXXU.

guilty of a contempt of court, and shall be punished by fine and
imprisonment, or either, at the discretion of the court. If the clerk
takes bond with insufficient security, he and his securities upon his
official bond shall be responsible for any loss or damage sustained
by any person injured thereby.
And no sale shall be made by such
commissioner until such bond and security has been given and approved by the clerk; and every notice of such sale shall have appended to it the certificate of such clerk that bond and security has
been gi\·en by the commissioner as required by law.
[Ia. See Acts 1872-'3, ch. 151, as follows :
1. That whenever a court shall hereafter decree the sale of real
estate, if it appear to the court that such real estate is of the value
of five hundred dollars or more it shall prescribe in the decree that
such sale shall he advertised in a newspaper, by the commissioner
or person appointed to make the sale. It shnll always be advertised in a newspaper published in the county, if one be published
therein, where the real estate to be sold is situated.
In the advertisement the commissioners shall state the time, terms
and place of sale, together with a description of the property to be
sold; Provided, however, That 'nothing herein shall be construed
to limit the power of the court to direct sales of lands to be advertised in newspapers where the value may he less than five hundred
dollars, or where no newspaper is published in the county where the
real estate to be sold is situated, then in some newi;paper having
a general circulation in the county: And provided, further, That
not more than five dollars shall be paid for any advertisement, that
does not. exceed two inches square of space, for the four successive insertions.
If the newspaper published in the county refuse to do the
work at this price then it shall be lawful to publish the samein any
newspaper in the judicial circuit, and if no paper in the circuit will
<lo the work at this price it shall he lawful to publish the same at the
front door of the court-house of the county, and three other public
places near the land to be sold.
2. A list of all lands returned as delinquent for taxes shall be advertised hy the sheriff for four weeks prior to the sale thereof in some
new~pnper in the county where such land is returned delinquent.
:3. Within three months after the sale of land for taxes, by the
several sheriffs of the state, if the lands or any tracts or parts of lauds
shall he honght hy individuals, the sheriff making the sale shall add
as part of the expPnses of' sale, an equal per centum on the taxes due
and for which the lands were so sold as will be sufficient to pay the
expenses of advertising the full return of all sales made to individuals for the period of eight weeks; and the said sheriff shall, within
said three months, advertise the said full returns of such sales in
some convenient newspaper, and shall always advertise in a newspaper published in the county, if one he published therein, and
shall specify in such advertisement the time within which the origi-

•
Digitized by

Google

735

CHAPTER CXXVII.

nal owner will be entitled to redeem, and beyond which the right
will cease.
4. Any sheriff, or other officer proceeding to sell under a writ of
fieri facias or venditioni expona~, if the property be of the value of
five hundred dollars or more, shall advertise the sale for the time required by law, in a newspaper published in his county, if one be
published therein, the cost of which advertisement shall not exceed
the price prescribed in section one of this act.
5. This act shall be in force from its passage]
·
2. Where no special commissioner is appointed for the pu;-pose, a
decree or order of court for the sale or property shall be executed by
the sheritl who attends such court, unless the place of sale be out of
his county, in which case the sale shall be by the sheriff of the county
wherein the place of sale is. Any sheriff or other officer, receiving
money under any order or decree, shall ptty the same as the court
may order; and if he fail so to do, he and the sureties in his official
bond shall ht! liable therefor.
3. For the services of commissioners or officers under anv decree
'or order for a sale, including the collection and paying over of the
proceeds, there shall not be allowed any greater commission than
five per centum on the first three hundred dollars received by them,
and two per centum on all above that sum, unless the court otherwise
order. And if a sale be made by one commissioner or officer and
the proceeds be collected by another, the court under whose decree
or order they acted shall apportion the commission between them as
may be just.
ORDER APPOINTING COMlll~IONER TO EXECUTE DEED, OR SU~'TITl'TING

TRU8TEE IN PLACE O~ ONE WHO HAS DIED; WHEN TRUST MAY BE
EXECUTED

BY PERSONAL REPRE'iENTATIVE,

4. A court o.f law or equity, in a suit in which it is proper to decree or order the execution of any deed or writing, may appoint a
commissioner to execute the same; and the execution thereof shall
be as valid to pass, release, or extinguish the right, title, and interest
of the party on whose behalf it is executed, as if such party had
been at the time capable in law of executing the same, and had executed it. ·
5. (Acts 1882, p. 444.) In a suit in equity in which it appears
that a trustee has died, although the heirs of such trustee be not
parties to the snit, yet if his personal representative and the other
persons interested be parties, the court may appoint another trustee
in the place of him who has died, to act either alone or in conjunct.ian with any surviving trustee, as the case may require; and in any
case, when a trustee, or where there is more than one, all the trustees in any deed of trust, shall have died or removed beyond the
limits of the state or shall decline to accept the trust or refuse to act,
any person interested in the executiou of the deed may apply by motion to the circuit court of any county in which such deed is re-

Digitized by

Google

736

CHAPTER CXXX III.

corded, which may appoint a trustee or trustees in the place of the
trustee or trustees named therein; and the trustee or trustees so appointed and accepting the same shall be substituted to all rights,
powers, duties and responsibilities of the trustee named in said
deed; provided the grantor in said deed, his heirs or personal representatives, the creditor, or surety, or other persons intended to be
secured thereby, or their personal 'representatives, shall have ten
days' notice of such motion, the mode of serving which shall be as
prescribed in the first and second sections of chapter one hundred and
twenty-one.
6. The personal representative of a sole or surviving trustee shall
execute the trust, or so much thereof as remained unexecuted at the
death of such trustee, (whether the trust subject be real or personal
estate,) unless the instrument creating the trust otherwise direct, or
some other trustee he appointed for the purpose by a court of chancery having jurisdiction of the case.
RIGHT OF INFANT8 TO :SHOW CAUSE AGAINST DECBEE. EFFECT OF REVERSAL
OF DECREE UPON PVR<,HASER UNDER IT.

7. It shall not be necessary to insert in any decree or order a provision allowing an infant to show cause against it within a certain
time after he attains the age of twenty-one years. But in any case
in which, but for this section, such provision would have been proper,
the infant may, within six months after attaining the age of twentyone years, show such cause in like manner as if the decree or order
contained such provision. This right of an infant shall · not be affected by the fourth section.
8. If a sale of property be made under a decree or order of a court,
and such sale be confirmed, though such decree or. order be afterwards
reversed or set aside, the title of th e purchaser at such sale shall not
be affected thereby; but there may be restitution of the proceeds of
sale to those entitled.
.

CHAPTER CXXXIII.
OF IXJUNCTIONS; BILL OF RE\'IEW; AND APPOINTMENT OF RECEIVERS.
WHEN COURT TO INTERFERE, IN WIIAT COURT INJUNCTION CASE PROCEEDS.

1. An injunction may be awarded to enjoin the sale of property
set apart as exempt in the case of a husband or parent, under chapter
forty-one, or to protect any plaintiff in a suit for specific property,
pending either at Jaw or in equity, against injury from the sale, removal, or concealment of such property.
2. A creditor, before obtaining a judgment or decree for hisclaim,
may institute any suit to avoid a gift, conveyance, assignment, or
transfer of, or charge upon, the estate of his debtor, which he might
institute after obtuiuing such judgment or decree, and he muy in
such suit have all the relief in respect to said estate, which he would
be entitled to after obtaining a judgment or decree for the claim
which he may be entitled to recover.

~gitized by

Google

737

CHAPTER CXXXIII.

3. Xo injunction shall be awarded in vacation nor in court in a
case not ready for hearing, unless the court or judge be satisfied by
affidavit or otherwise of the plaintiff's equity; and any court or
judge may require that reasonable notice shall be given to the adverse party, or his attorney at law or in fact, of the time and place
of moving for it, before the injunction is awarded, if in the opinion
of the court or judge it be proper that such notice should be given.
4. Jurisdiction of a bill for an injunction to any judgment, act, or
proceeding shall be in the circuit court of the county in which the
judgment is rendered, or the act or proceeding is to be done, or is
doing, or is apprehended, and the same may be granted to a judgment of a justice in like manner and with like effect as to other
judgments.
OF BILLS OF REVIEW.

5. A court or judge allowing a bill of review may award an injunction to the decree to be reviewed. Bnt no hill of review shall
be allowed to a final decree, unless it be exhibited within three years
next after such decree, except that an infant, or insane person, or a
married woman in a case not relating to her separate property, may
exhibit the same within three years after the removal of his or her
disability.
GE~.RRAL JURISDICTION OF JCDGES IN AWARDING INJUNCTIONS.

6. _Every judge of a circuit court shall have a general jurisdiction in awarding injunctions, whether the judgment or proceeding
enjoined be in or out of his circuit, or t.he party against whose proceeding the injunction bP. asked reside in or out of the same.
7. When a circuit court, or a judge thereof shall refuse to award
an injunction, a copy of the proceedings in court, and the original
papers presented to the judge in vacation, with his order of refusal,
may be presented to a judge of the supreme court of appeals, who
may thereupon uward the injunction:
POWER TO RE~TRAIN REMOVAL OF PROPERTY OUT OF THE STATE.

8. A court or judge awarding an injunction to restrain the re·
moval of the property out of the state may rt><p1irt~ bond to be given
before such officer and in such penalty as it may direct, conditioned
to have the property forthcoming to a hide the future order or decree
of the court, and, unless such hood be given, may order the officer
serving its process to take possession of the property, and keep it
until the bond be given, or until the further order of the court.
TO WHAT t:LERK JUDGE'S ORDER FOR INJUNCTION IS DIRECTED.

9. Every order (awarding an injunction), made under the sixth or
seventh section, shall be directed to the clerk of such circuit court
as has jurisdiction under the fourth section, and proceedings thereupon shall be as if the order had been made by such court, or the,
judge thereof.

Digitized by

Google

'138

CHAPTER

oxxxur,

INJUNCTION BOND.

10. (Acts 1882, p. 176.) An injunction, (except in the case of any
personal representative, or other person from whom, in the opinion
of the court or judge, awarding the same, it may be improper to require bond). shall not take eflect until bond be given in such pen·alty as the court or judge awarding it may direct, with condition to
pay the judgment or decree (proceedings on which are enjoined),
and all such costs as may be awarded against the party obtaining the
injunction, and also such damages as shall be incurred or sustained
by the person enjoined in case the injunction be dissolved, and with
a further condition, if a fortheoming bond has been given under
said judgment or decre ... , to indemnify and save harmless the sureties in said forthcoming bond and their representatives, against all
loss or damages in consequence of said suretyship ; or if the injunction be not to proceedings on a judgment or decree, with such condition as the said court or judge may prescribe. The bond shall be
given before the clerk of the court in which such judgment or decree is, and in other cases before the clerk of the court in which the
suit is wherein the injunction is awarded.
If the bond be not given
before the summons is issued, the clerk shall endorse thereon that the
injunction is not to take effrct until the bond is given, and the clerk
who afterwards takes the bond shull endorse that it is gh·en.
11. (ib.) Any surety in such forthcoming bond or his personal
representative, may move for and obtain an order for other or additional security, in like manner as a defendant in the injunction
may do.
ORDER OF DISSOLt;TION-PAMAGF..S THEREO'S.

12. (ib.) When an injunction to stay proceedings on a judgment
or decree for money is dissolved, wholly or in part, there shall be
decreed to the party having such judgment or decree, damages, in lieu
of interest, at the rate of ten per centurn per annum from the time
the injunction took effect, until such dissolution thereof, on the
amount of prjncipal, interest and costs due on the judgment or de ..
eree, proceedings on which are enjoined, and ii a forthcoming bond
has been taken in the case, the amount on which such damages shall
be paid, shall be the sum due on such bond. Aud in all cases the
court or judge dissolving the injunction, shall ascertain and enter
in the decree uf dissolution the amount of principal, interest, damages and costs, including officer's ft>e'i and commissions due on the
judgment or decree, at the date ot the dissolution of the injunction,
and shull award execution therefor against the defendant in the judgment or decree, proceedings (Ill which were enjoined, or their personal representatives, with interest thereon from that day till paid,
and the costs incurred by the defendant in the injunction, in defending the same. And if a forthcoming bond has been given in the
case, and the same has been or shall be forfeited, the sureties therein
\hall be liable for the costs incurred by the defendant in the injunc-

Digitized by

Google

CHAPTER

739

CXXXIII.

tion, as aforesaid, and, to the extent of their liability on said forthcoming bond, for whatever sum remains unpaid, on the execution so
awarded.
Any such injunction may be dissolved in vacation, by the
judge of the circuit court of the county in which the same is pending; but the opposite party must have reasonable notice in writing
of the time and place at which such motion will be made.
DJS)IISSAL OF BILL.

13. (ib.) Where an injunction is wholly dissolved, the bill shall be
dismissed with costs, unless sufficient cause be shown against such
dismission.
CLERKS TO FURNISH STATEMENTS OF MONEYS TO CREDIT OF SUITS.

14. (ib.) It shall be the duty of the clerk of each circuit court to
report to such court, at the first term thereof after the first day of
July in each year, a statement, which shall show in separate columns,
the name of the suit or other proceeding in which any money has been
heretofore paid into court, or into bank or other place of deposit, or
to any person specially appointed to receive the same under any
judgment, order or decree of such court, and which money remains
undisbursed, in whole or in part, at the date of such report; the date
of such judgment, order or decree; the date of such payment; the
amount so paid and remaining undisbursed ; the person by whom
it was paid; the person by whom, or the bank or other depository
into which the payment was made; if such money, or any part
thereof, has been loaned out, or remains on deposit, or in the
hands of the receiver; and if loaned out, the date of the or<ler authoriziug the loan; the date of the loan; the person to whom it was
made, and who then holds it; if security has been given therefor;
the nature of the security; and where secured by bond or other obligation, the penalty thereof, and the names of the principal obliger
and his sureties.
For every failure of such clerk to comply with
the provisions of this section, he shall be guilty of a contempt of
court and fined by the court fifty dollars.
15. Each circuit court may appoint a general recei ver of the con rt
who shall hold his office at its pleasure, and whose duty it shall be,
unless it be otherwise specially ordered, to receive, take charge of,
and invest in such stock or other security as the court may specially
order, and in the manner required by such or<ler, all moneys heretofore paid into court, or into bank or other place of deposit, and
now standing subject to the order of such court, and all moneys so
paid under any judgment, order, or decree of the court, and also to
pay out or dispose of the same as the court may order or decree; and
to this end the general receiver shall have authority to check for,
receive and give acquittances for all such moneys.
REUEIVER'S POWERS OYER STOCKS AND SECURITIES.

16. (Acts 1882, p. 176.)

The certificates of stock or other seen-

Digitized by

Google

740

CHAPTER CXXXIII.

rity in which, under the special orders of the court, such instruments
may be made, shall be taken in the name of the general receiver, as
such, and be kept by him, unless otherwise specially ordered; and he
shall have the power to sell, transfer or collect the same, when ordered by the court to do so, but not otherwise; and in case of his
death, resignation or removal, his successor, or any person specially appointed by the court for that purpose, shall have like power.
COLLECTION AND INVESTMENT OF FUNDS.

17. The general receiver shall collect the dividends and interest
on all certificates of stock or other security in which investments
have been or may he made under the orders or decrees of his court,
or under the provisions of this chapter, when and as often as the
same may become due and payable thereon; and shall invest or dispose of the same as the-court shall order or decree.
HIS ACCOUNT AND REPORT TO COURT.

18. He shall keep an accurate and particular account of all moneys received, invested and paid out by him, showing the respective
amounts to the credit ot each case in the court, and designating in
the items the judgments, orders or decrees of the court under which
the respective sums have been received, invested or paid out; and on
the first day of each regular term of the circuit court, he shall report to such court a general statement showing the balances to the
credit of each case in the court in which money has been received
by him, the manner in which it is invested, the amounts received,
invested, or paid out since the preceding term of the court, and the
whole amount then invested and subject to the future order of the
court; and he shall, at any time when required by the court so to
do, furnish a statement of the amount subject to the order of the
court in any case pending therein.
LIABIUTY

FOR FCNDS.

19. He shall be liable for all moneys which may come into his
hands as general receiver; and if, at any time, he shall fail to invest any sum of money, as required by the preceding sections, for
the space of sixty days after the same shall be, or ought to have been
received by him, or shall fail to pay out any sum of money, when
required by the court to pay the same, for the space of sixty days
after it shall come into his hands for the purpose of such payment,
he shall be charged with interest thereon from the day when such
money was or ought to have been received by him, until such investment or payment is made, unless, upon gl)od cause shown to the
court, it shall order otherwise.
RECEIVER'S BOND.

20. (Acts 1882, p. 176.) He shall, at the time of his appointment, and at least once in every two years thereafter, give bond with
good security, to be approved by the court, in such penalty as the

Digitized by

Google

CHAPTER

741

CXXXIII.

eourt shall prescribe, but sufficient, at least, to cover the probable
amount which may come to his hands as such receiver during the
ensuing two years, with condition as is required by section six of
chapter ten of this code.
COMPESSATIO:S.

21. He shall receive as a compensation for his services such per
centum of the amount received and invested or paid out by him in
each case as the court may direct, for receiving, in vesting or paying
out the same.
PENALTIES.

22. If he shall foil to keep the account, or to make out and return the statement required by the eighteenth section of this chapter, he shall be subject to a fine of not less than one hundred nor
more than one thousand dollars, to be imposed by the court at its
discretion ; and the condition of his official bond shall he taken to
embrace the liability of himself and his sureties for any such fine.
WHEX INTEREST IS PAYABLE;

WHEN COMPOUNDED.

23. The interest. on all loans made to individuals under an order
of court shall become due and payable on the first day of January
in each year, until the principal is paid; and unless the interest be
paid at the time it becomes due and payable, compound interest shall
be charged thereon to the borrower from such time until payment
thereof is made.
RECE[VER'i OF COURT3; tosr RE(})RD ou !PAPER; HO\V RECEIVER'S ACCOUNTS
ARE SETTLED AND THECR BONDS EXAMINED.

24. Each circuit court at its regular term after the first day of
January in each year, by an order entered of record, shall require
· one of its commissioners in chancery, other than the commissioner
who may have been appointed general receiver thereof, to state and
settle the accounts of all the receivers of such court, both general and
special, and of all persons to whom any money has been loaned under the order of the court, or who have money subject to the future
order of the court, and which then remains undisbursed. The clerk
of the court shall furnish to su.ch commissioner a copy of the order
so made, with a list appended thereto exhibiting the names of all
such receivers and persons. The said commissioner shall summon
such receivers and persons, or personal representatives of such of
them as are dead, before him, and audit, state and settle· their accounts, and report the same to the circuit court at its next term
after such order has been made; and he shall append to the report
a statement, showing in separate columns all the matters required to
be shown by the clerk in the statement mentioned in the fourteenth
section of this chapter. He shall also cause the bonds of the receivers of the court, and the bonds or other securities given for any
money loaned under the order of the court, to be produced before

•

Digitized by

Google

742

CHAPTER CXXXIII.

him, and shall ascertain if the obligors in such bonds, or if such
other securities are sufficient, and report thereon to the court at the
times before mentioned.
WHKN REQUIRED TO GIVE NEW BONDS.

25. The court shalJ examine the reports required by the fourteenth and twenty-fourth sections of this chapter, when the same are
made to it; and if satisfied of the correctness thereof shall order
them, by endorsement thereon, to be recorded; and if it appear from
t.he report of the commissioner that any bond of a receiver, or any
bond or other security given by any person to whom money has
been loaned under its order, is insufficient, the court shall order additional security to bP. given, or another bond to be executed before
it, in such penalty as may seem right, and with sufficient securities.
But the execution of such new bond shall not discharge the sureties
in any prior bond from their liability for acts of the principal obligor done previously to the execution of such new bond.
CLERKS TO KEEP RECEIVERS' BOOKS AND INDEX THElf.

~6. The clerk of each circuit cou;t shall procure, at the expense
ot his county, a book to be called the ''receiver's book," wherein he
shall record the said reports, when approved by the court; and be
shall make an index thereto, showing the style of the suit or other
proceeding in which money has been paid as aforesaid, and the page
where any report respecting the same has been recorded; and the
said book shall be open to the examination ot any person interested
or his counsel, without the payment of any fee therefor.
FEES OF CLERKS AND COlUUSSIONEH$.

27. For making the report required by the fourteenth section

!l z;"li-ffand for recording the reports required by the twenty-fourth section,
c

;'- a. i<-

said clerks may charge, in each case mentioned in such report, a fee ·
of fifty cents to he chargeable to the party in the case seeking to re/ 1 cover the money therein and 'mentioned in the report; and said commissioners may charge, for the reports made under the twenty-fourth
section, the same fees allowed by law to commissioners in chancery
for other reports, to be paid out of the fond in court, and charged to
the respective cases therein, in such proportions as the court shall
judge right.
•
·
WHEN SPEUAL RECEIVER MAY BE APPOINTED.

_ · 2'8. (Acts 1882, P: 176.) A court of equity may in nny proper
case pending therein, in which the property of a corporation, firm
or person is involved, and there is danger of the loss or misappropriation of the same or a material part thereof, appoint a special receiver of such property or of the rents, issues and profits thereof, or
both, who shall give bond with good security to be approved by the
court, or by the clerk thereof, for the faithful performance of his
trust and for paying over and accounting for, according to law, all
such• moneys as may come into his hands by virtue of his appoint-

Digitized by

Google

CHAPTER

ment.

743

CXXXIV.

But no such receiver shall be appointed of any real estate, or

of the rents, issues or profits thereof until reasonable notice of the

application therefor has been given to the owner or tenant thereof.
A judge of such court in vacation may appoint such receiver of any
such property, except real estate and the rents, issues and profits.
thereof.
CHA];>TER CXXXIV.
OF ERRORS INSUFFICIENT IN AN APPELLATE COURT.

1. For any clerical error or error in fact for which a judgment or
decree may be reversed or corrected on writ of error coram nobis,
the same may be reversed or corrected, on motion after reasonable
notice, by the court, or by the judge thereof in vacation.
2. A judgment on confession shall be equal to a release of errors
in the proceedings.
3. No judgment or decree shall he stayed or reversed for the appearance of either party, being under the age of twenty-one years,
by attorney, if the verdict, (wl)ere there is one), or the judgment
or decree, be for him and not to his prejudice; or for want of warrant of attorney ; or for the want of a similiter, or any ruisjoining
of issue; or for any informality in the entry of the judgment or decree by the clerk; or for the omission of the name of any juror; or
because it may not appear that the verdict was rendered by the
number of jurors required by law; or for any defect, imperfection,
or omission in the pleadings, which could not be regarded on demurrer; or for any other defect, imperfection, or omission, which might
have been taken advantage of OD a demurrer or answer, but was not
so taken advantage of.
4. No decree shall be reversed for want of a replication to the answer, where the defendant has taken depositions as if there had been·
a replication; nor shall a decree be reversed at the instance of a party who has taken depositions, for an informality in the proceedings,.
when it appears that there was a full and fair hearing upon themerits, and that substantial justice has been done.
5. The court in which there is a judgment by default, or a decree
OD a bill taken for confessed, or the judge of said court in the vacation thereof, may, on motion, reverse such judgment or decree, for
any error for which an appellate court might reverse it, if the fol- .
lowing section was not enacted, and give such jadgment or decree as
ought to be given. And the court in which is rendered a judgment"
or decree, in a cause wherein there is in a dec1aration or pleading,
or in the record of the j uclgment or decree, any mistake, miscalculation, or misrecital of any name, sum, quantity, or time, when the·
same is right in any part of the record or proceedings, or when thereis any verdict, report of a commissioner, bond, or other writing,
whereby such judgment or decree may be safely amended ; or in
which a judgment is rendered on a forthcoming bond for a sum luger than by the execution or warrant of distress appears to be proper,

Digitized by

Google

744

CHAPTER CXXXV.

or on a verdict in an action for more damages than arementioned in
the declaration ; or in the vacation of the court in which any such
judgment or decree is rendered, the judge thereof may, on the motion of any party, amend such judgment 01 decree according to the
truth and justice of. the case; or in any such case the party obtaining such judgment or decree may, in the same court, at any future
term, hy an entry of record, or in the vacat1on, by a writing signed
by him, attested by the clerk, and filed among the papers of the
cause, release a part of the amount of his judgment or decree; and
such release shall have the effect of an amendment, and make the
judgment or decree operate only for what is not released. Every
motion under this chapter shall be after reasonable notice to the opposite party, his agent, or attorney in fact or at law, and shall be
within five years from the date of the judgment or decree.
6. No appeal, writ of error, or supersedeas shall be allowed or entertained by an appelJate court or judge for any matter for which a
judgment or decree is liable to be reversed or amended, on motion
as aforesaid, by the court which rendered it, or the judge thereof,
until such motion be made and overruled in whole or in part. And
when an appellate court hears a case wherein an appeal, writ of error, or supersedeas has been allowed, if it appear that, either before
or since the same was allowed, the judgment or decree has been so
amended, the appellate court shall affirm the judgment or decree, unless there be other error; and if it appear that the amendment ought
to be and has not been made, the appellate court may make snch
amendment, and affirm in like manner the judgment or decree, unless there he other error.
CAAPTER CXXXV.
(A.eta 1882, p. 505.)

OF APPEALS TO THE COURT OF APPEALS-IN

WHAT CASES TAKEN.

l. A party to a controversy in any circuit court may obtain from
the F-upreme court of appeals, or a judge thereof in vacation, an appeal from, or a writ of error or supersedeas to, a judgment, decree or
order of such circuit court in the following cases:
First. In civil cases, where the matter in controversy exclusive of
costs, is of greater value or amount than one hundred dollars, wherein there is a. final judgment or decree or order.
Second. In controversies concerning the title or boundariesof land,
the probate of a will, or the appointment of a personal representative, guardian, committee or curator.
Third. Concerning a mill, road, way, ferry or landing.
Fourth. Concerning the right of a corporation, county or district
to levy tolls or taxes.
Fifth. In any case of quo uiarramio, habeas corpU8, mandamus or
prohibition.
Sixth. In any case involving freedom or the constitutionality of a
law.

Digitized by

Google

CHAPTER

745

CXXXY.

&venth. lu any case in chancery wherein there is a decree or order dissolving or refusing to dissolve an injunction, or requiring
ruoney to be paid, or real estate to be sold, or the possession or title
of tbe property to be changed, or adjudicating the principles ofthe
cause.
Eiqhih, In any case where there is a judgment or order quashing
or abating, or refusing to quash or abate an attachment.
Ninih, In any civil case where there is an order granting a new
trial or re-hearing, and in such cases an appeal may he taken from
· the order without waiting for the new trial or re-hearing to be had.
Tenth. In any criminal case where there has been a conviction in
a circuit court, or there has been a conviction in an inferior court,
which has been affirmed in a circuit court.
2. Any person who is a party to such controversy wishing to ohtain u writ of error, appeal 01· supereedeas in the cases named in the
first section of this chapter, may present a petition therefor to the
supreme court of appeals, or to a judge thereof in vacation.
3 Xo petition shall be presented for an appeal from, or writ of
error or eupersedeas to, any judgment, decree or order, whether the
state be a party thereto or not, nor to any judgment of a circuit or
municipal court rendered in an appeal from the judgment of a justice which shall have been rendered or made more than five years
before such petition is presented,
It the judgment, decree or order
mentioned in the petition has been · given, rendered or made before
this chapter, as amended, takes effect; but as to any judgment, decree or order given, rendered or made after this chapter, as amended,
takes effect, no such petition shall be presented after two years from.
the date of such judgment, decree or order.
4. At the instance of any person who desires to present such petition, the court in which the judgment, decree or order is, may,
during the term at which it is rendered or made, or if it be in a circuit conrt any circuit judge may, within twenty days after such term
is ended, upon notice in writing to the opposite party, (in either case
the court or the judge exercising a discretiou.) make an order suBpending the execution of such judgment, decree 01· order (for areasenable time, to be specified in such order) when such person shall
give bond before the clerk of said court, in such penalty as the court
or judge may require, with a condition reciting such judgment, decree or order, and the intention of said person to present such petition, and providing for the payment of all such damages as any
person may sustain by reason of the said suspension, in case a supereedeas to such judgment, decree or order should not be allowed and
be effectual within the time so specified.
5. With such petition there shall be a transcript of the record of
so much of the case wherein the judgment, decree or order is, as will
enable the court or judge to whom the petition is to be presented,
properly to decide on such petitions, and enable the court. if the petition be granted, properly to decide the questions that may arise

Digitized by

Google

746

CHAPTER CXXXV.

before it. The person intending to petition shall notify the opposite
party, or his counsel, of his intention, if any portion of the record not
authorized in section six of this chapter is intended to be omitted
therefrom.
6. Unle-s the person so intending to petition direct otherwise,
there shal] hot he copied in a chancery case, any of the process, returns or evidences of service, nor the com missions (if any) and notices
to take depositions, the captions to such depositions, and certificates
of their ha\'ing been sworn to, except so far as may be necessary to
the decision of exceptions taken to the reading of the depositions, ·
but the nnme of each witness and the day of taking .his deposition,
shall be stated at the head thereof. If more than one copy of the
same paper be filed in the case, only one copy of it shall be inserted.
There shall not be copied an account reported by a commissioner, to
which there is no exception, nor any printed document of which
either party will furnish to the clerk a copy, but such duplicate shall
be attached to what is copied ; and when a case bas before been in
the supreme court of appeals, there shall only be copied the proceedings subsequent to the former appeal, writ of error or supersedeas.
The bond filed, and the notice of appeal, if one has been served, shall
be inserted in the record. Provided, That the clerk shall make out
the whole record, or any additional part thereof, if either party to
the appeal shall so direct.
7. The appellate court, or the judge thereof, may, when a case has
before been in such court, inspect the record upon the former appeal,
writ of error or supereedeas. And such court may in any case award
a writ of certiorari to the clerk of the court below, and have brought
before it, when part of a record is omitted, the whole or any part of
such record.
8. A petition for appeal, writ of error, or supersedeas, shall as-·
sign errors, and it shall not be presented until some counsel or attorney of the appellate court shall certify that in his opinion it is
proper that the decision should be reviewed hy such court.
9. The petition shall he presented to the supreme court of appeals
or to a judge thereof.
10. If upon a petition as aforesaid the appeal, writ of error or supersedeas to a judgment, order or decree of a circuit court or a court
of limited jurisdiction within any incorporated town or city from
which an appeal lies to the supreme court of appeals be allowed, the
· appeal, writ of error or supersedeas shall be docketed in the supreme
court of appeals.
11. In a case wherein the court shall deem the judgment, decree
or order complained of, plainly right, and reject it on that ground,
no other petition therein shall afterward be entertained.
But the
rejection of such petition by a judge in vacation, shall not prevent
the presentation of such petition to the court when in session.
12. The court or judge to whom a petition is duly presented if of
opinion that the decision complained of ought to be reviewed, may

Digitized by

Google

CHAPTER

747

~XXXY.

allow an appeal, writ of error or supersedeas, and· may stay proceedings either in whole or in part.
13. Every appeal, writ of error or supersedeas shall, when it is to·
or from a judgment, decree or order of the circuit court of any
county, or from any court within any incorporated city, town or village which has the right of appeal to the supreme court of appeals,
be docketed in said court. The clerk of the court wherein it is
docketed, shall in a case in which it is allowed, on petition, issue a
summons against the parties interested, other than the petitioners,
that they may he heard, and also issue any supersedeas which may be
awarded, which summons, writ of error or supersedeas may be served
upon the party in person or his attorneys in the court irom which.
the appeal is taken.
14. Except when an appeal, writ of error or supersedeas is proper
to protect the estate of a decedent, convict or insane person, the
same shall not take effect until bond is given by the appellants or .
petitioners, or one of them, or some other person, in a penalty to be
fixed by the court or judge, by or in which the appeal, writ of error
or supersedeae is allowed or entered with condition : if a supersedeas
he awarded to perform and satisfy the judgment, decree or order, or
any part thereof, proceedings on which are stayed, in case the said
judgment, decree or order, or such part be affirmed, or the appeal,
writ of error or eupersedeas be dismissed, and also, to vay all damages, costs and fees, which may be awarded against or incurred by
the appellants or petitioners ; and if it he an appeal from an order
or decree dissolving an injunction, or dismissiug a bill of injunction
with a further condition, to indemnify and save harmless the surety
in the injunction bond against loss or damage in consequence of his
suretyship ; and with condition when no supersedeas is awarded, to
pay such specific damages, and such costs and fees as may be so
awarded or incurred.
15. The clerk of the snpreme court of appeals shall endorse on the
summons or eupersedeas that it is not to be effectual until the bond
with good personal security, be given before the clerk of the court
below, who shall take said bond and endorse on the process that it
has heen given, and the names of the sureties therein, and forward to
the clerk of the supreme court. of appeals a certified copy of such
bond.
IG. On the motion of any surety in said bond, after reasonable notice, or a rule against bis principal, the appellate court may order
bond to be gi\'en in such time as it may prescribe, with a sufficient
security to indemnify and save harmless such surety against all loss
or damage in consequence of his suretyship, or upon motion of the
appellee alleging the insufficiency of the sureties in such bond, the
appellate court may order a new bond with sufficient security to be
executed within such reasonable time as the court may prescribe,
and if such order be not complied with, may order the appeal, writ
of error or eupersedeos to be dismissed.

Digitized by

Google

748

CHAPTER

ex xx v.

17. No procesi; shall i"ssue upon any appeal, writ of error or supe1·sedeas allowed to or from a final judgment, decree or order, if when
the record is delivered to the clerk of th•e appellate court there shall
have elapsed five years since the date of such final judgment, decree
or order, but the appeal, writ of error or Hupe1·sedeWJ shall be dismissed whenever it appears that five years have elapsed since the
·said date before the record is delivered to such clerk, or before such
bond is given, as is required to be given before the appeal, writ of
error or eupcreedeas takes effect.
PRINTED RECORDS-HOW DISPO$ED OF.

18. There shall be eighteen copies of the record printed, containing the petition, so much of the record as the counsel for any party
interested ur the court may direct, and the table of contents, in octavo form, on book paper of good quality, long primer type, the title
on the cover to be in the center, preserving on the margin of the
'printed record the pagiug of the record from the court below, which
shall lie used in printing and returned to the clerk's office of the supreme court of appeals. Of the printed records, the clerk shall deliver one to each judge, two to the counsel on each side, retain one
in his office, transmit one to the clerk of the court below, (in which
the case was originally decided) and shall deliver one copy to the reporter. The clerk shall have the record printed if the party obtaining
the appeal, writ of error or eupersedeas request him to do so, and shall
deposit with him a sufficient amount to pay for said printing, which
shall be twenty-two cents for every one hundred words printed, and
the cost of print ing said record shall be printed at the end of same, and
no greater compensarion shall be charged. The cost such printing
unless otherwise ordered by the court shall he taxed against the op"'
posite party: if the judgment, decree or order appealed from be reversed. And should the appellant or plaintiff in error fail for six
months after his case has been docketed in the court of appeals to
deposit with the clerk of said. court of appeals a sufficient amount
to pay for the printing of the record, or shall hims-If for six months
fail to have the record printed and filed in the clerk's office of said
court of appeals, he shall be deemed to have abandoned his appeal
and the same shall be dismissed; but it may be renewed at any time
wit hin five or two years from the date of the judgment, order or decree appealed from, according to the provisions of section three of
this chapter, In every felony case the clerk shall have the usual
number of records printed at a cost not exceeding the amount fixed
by this section, and dispose of the same as in other cases, and upon
the certificate of the president of the supreme court of' appeals, stating that such record has been printed and the amount said clerk is
entitled to, the costs of printing the same shall be paid to said clerk
out of the treasury of the state.
19. If a party who has obtained an appeal, writ of error or supersedeas desires to have said record printed himself, he shall notify the

o,

Digitized by

Google

749

CHAPTER CXXXV.

clerk of the supreme court of appeals of such intention, and if the
manuscript record is in possession of the said· clerk it shall be his
duty, when required by said=party, to deliver said record to him, or,
if he is directed to do so, he shall forward the said record to the said
party by mail or express upon receiving a sufficient sum to pay the
postage or express charges upon same, when the said party shall have
the number of copies thereof printed as required by the preceding.
section, and in the manner therein set forth. After he shall have
had said record printed, they shall be delivered by him to said clerk,
to be disposed of and used by him as is provided in section eighteen
of this chapter, together with the manuscript record, and the costs
of printing said record shall be taxed in the costs recovered in case
the judgment or decree appealed from be reversed; Provided, That
said costs shall not exceed the amount fixed by the preceding section of this chapter; and Provided, further, if the record is imperfect and not printed in all respects as is required in this chapter, the
court, in its discretion, is authorized to have the said record, or any part
thereof, reprinted at the price hereinbefore fixed for the same at the
expen~e of the party obtaining the appeal, writ of error or supersedeae. And, Proeidesi. further, That the clerk of the supreme court
of appeals shall carefully compare the printed records filed in his
office with the transcripts of records certified by the clerks of courts
below, and mark upon each copy of the printed record all errors
that may have been committed in printing. For his services in this
behalf he shall be entitled to a fee of one cent for each thirtv words
of the printed record.
·
20. Before the commencement of each session of the supreme
court ot appeals, the clerk shall make ont a docket ·of the causes
then ready for hearing in the grand division where the session of
the court is about to be held. They shall he numbered by figures
and shall be docketed in the order in which the records were received. The docket shall be arranged in such order as the court may
designate, except that all causes from a county as well as in each
particular circuit, or part of a circuit, shall be together, and to each
circuit, or part of a circuit, a sufficient portion of the term shall be
assigned for the causes to be heard and submitted, and the causes in
each circuit, or part of a circuit, shall be heard and submitted, or
unless postponed or continued for good cause, before those as arranged on the docket for the next circuit or part of a circuit, shall
be called and taken up. Thirty days before the term is to commence the clerk shall cause to be printed on a sufficient number
of slips, the order in which the circuits, or part of a circuit, are arranged, the causes for trial, and the days assigned to each circuit
and part of a circuit, and mail one copy thereof to each judge of the
supreme court of appeals, and to each judge of a circuit court, and
ten copies to each clerk of a circuit court.
21. No decision rendered by the supreme court of appeals shall
he considered as binding authority upon any of the inferior courts

Digitized by

Google

750

CHAPTER

CXXXV.

of this state, except in the particular case decided ; unless such decision is concurred in by at least three judges of the court.
22. When a judgment or decree is reversed or affiamed by the
supreme court of appeals, every point fairly arising upon the record
of the case shall be considered and decided ; and the reasons therefor shall he concisely stated in writing and preserved with the rec.ord ot the caee; and it shall be the duty of the court to prepare a
syllabus of the points adjudicated in each case concurred in by the
three judges thereof, which shall be prefixed to the published report
.. ot the case.
23. If at any time there be on the docket of the supreme court
of appeals, at either place of session, a case in respect to which a
majority of the judges of said court are so situated as to make it improper for them to sit on the bearing thereof, that fact shall be entered of record.
·
PARTIES-HOW

DESIGXATED ON APPEAL.

2-1. The plaintiff in the court below shall be designated as plaintiff in the appellate court. The case shall be entered on the appeal
<locket as follows: "A-B--,
plaintiff and appellee, (or appellant, plaintiff in error, defendant in error, as the case may he,)
vs. C-D--}
defendant aud appellant," (or appellee, plaintiff
in error, or defendant in error, as the case may be.)
25. The supreme court of appeals shall not hear parul testimony
except in cases in which it has original jurisdiction.
26. The supreme court of appeals shall affirm the judgment, decree
or order, if there be no error therein, and reverse the same in whole
or in part, if erroneous, and enter such judgment, decree or order as
the court whose error is sought to be corrected, ought to have entered, affirming in cases where the court is equally divided. In the
case of an appeal from an order granting a new trial, or re-hearing,
if the order be reversed, such final judgment, decree or order shall be
rendered or mude in the case as the appellant was entitled to iu the
court below.
27. When any judgment, decree or order is affirmed in the supreme court of appeals, damages shall be awarded to the appellee.
Such damages, when the judgment, decree or order is for the payment of money, shall be at the rate of six per centum pet· annum on
the whole amount of the recovery, including interest and cost, from
the time the appeal took effect, until the decision of the supreme court
of appeals is entered in the order hook of the court below ; which
damages shall he in satisfaction of all interest during that time.
When the judgment, decree or order is not for the payment of any
money, except costs, the damages sha II he such speci fie sum as the
supreme court of appeals may deem reasonable, not being more than .
one hundred dollars.
2K. When any term of the supreme court of appeals is ended, or
sooner, if the court so direct, the clerk thereof shall certify aud by

Digitized by

Google

751

CHAPTER CXXX VI.

mail or otherwise transmit its decision to the clerk of the court below, except that it shall not be his duty to certify or transmit a <'.Opy
of such decision unless the prevailing party ~shall have paid all fees
due from him in the cause, and also an amount sufficient to pay the
postage thereon.
If any clerk shall fail to comply with this section
for twenty days, except as aforesaid, he shall forfeit fifty dollars to
any person aggrieved.
29. Ttie court from which any case may have come to the supreme
court of appeals, shall enter the decision of the appe11ate court as
its own, and execution thereon may issue accordingly.
If such decision he received by the clerk of the court below in vacation, he
shall enter it of record in his order book, and thereupon such execution may issue and such proceedings he had in the case as would
have been proper if the decision had been entered in court.
APPEAL', TO THE SUPREME COlJRT OF THE UNITED STATES.

30. At the instance of any party to a controversy in the supreme
court of appeals, who desires to present a petition to the supreme
court of the United States for an appeal from, or writ of error or
superseileas to, a final decree, judgment or order therein, the supreme
court of appeals during the· term at which it is rendered or made, or
any judge thereof may, within sixty days after the term at which
such decree, judgment or order is rendered or made, is ended, make
an order (which shall be certified by him to the clerk of said last
mentioned court, and be entered hy him in the proper order book)
suspending the execution of such decree, judgment or order for
ninety days after the term is ended at which it is rendered or made,
when such person shall give bond before the clerk of said last mentioned court, or the clerk of the circuit court, from which the case or
cause was taken to the supreme court of appeals, in such penalty as
the court or judge may require, with a condition reciting such decree,
judgment or order, and the intention of said person to present such
petition, and providing for the payment of all snch damages 88 any
person may sustain by reason of the said suspension, in case a ,-tupasedeas to such decree, judgment or order should not be allowed and be.
effectual within the time so specified.
ACTS REPEALED.

2. All acts and parts of acts coming within the purview of this
act, and inconsistent therewith, are hereby repealed.

CHAPTER CXXXVI.
(Acts 1882, p. 353.)
GENERAL PROVISIONS AS TO CIVIL CASES-SUITS ON BONDS WITH CONDITION.

1. ,vhere the proceeding before a conrt or justice is on a penal
bond, with condition for the payment of money, the jurisdiction shall
be determined as if the undertaking to pay such money had been

Digitized by

Google

752

CHAPTER

CXXXVI.

without a penalty. And where jurisdiction depends on the amount
of a judgment, if it be on such a bond, the jurisdiction shall be determined by the sum, payment whereof will discharge the judgment.
2. A bond for obtaining any writ or order in term time or vacation may be executed by any one person with sufficient surety,
though it be in a case no party to which is an obligor.
'
UAllAGE.5 FOK DETENTION

OF PROPERTY AFTER VERDICT;

3. When a judgment for specific personal property is affirmed by
an appellate court, or an injunction to such judgment is dissolved
the person who is entitled to execution of such judgment, or who
would be entitled if execution had not been had, may, on motion to
the court from which such execution has issued, or might issue, after
four weeks notice to the defendant or his personal representatives,
have a jury impaneled to ascertain the damages sustained by reason
of the detention of such property subsequent to such judgment, or, if
it was on a verdict, subsequent to such verdict; and judgment shall
be rendered for the damages so ascertained, if any.
PERIOD EXCLUDED FROM OPERATION OF STATUTE OF LIMITATIO~.

4, In computing the time within which any action of debt, detinue, covenant, assumpsit, trover, trespass, or case, pending at the
time this chapter, as amended, takes effect, shall be barred by any
statute of limitation, the period from the seventeenth day of April,
one thousand eight hundred and sixty-one, to the first day of March,
one thousand eight hundred and sixty-five, shall be excluded from
such computation.
,5. No citizen of this state who aided 01· participated in the late
war between the government of the United States and a part of the
people thereof, on either side, shall be liable in any proceeding, civil
or criminal ; nor shall his property be seized or sold under final
process, issued upon judgments, or decrees heretofore rendered, or
otherwise, because of any act done according to the u~ages of civilized warfare, in the prosecution of said war, by either of the parties
thereto.
STAY OF PROCEEDINGS IX CERT..\I~ CASES.

6. Whenever it shall be made to appear to a circuit court, or to
the judge thereof in vacation, that a stay of proceedings in a case
therein pending, should be had, until the decision of some other action, suit, or proceeding in the same, or another court, such court or
judge shall make an order staying proceedings therein, upon such
terms as may be prescribed iu the order. But no application for
such stav shall he entertainad in vacation until reasonable notice
thereof ·has been served upon the opposite party.
EFFECT OF RELEASE, ETC., IN CERTALS CASES.

7. A release to, or an accord and satisfaction with one joint tres-

Digitized by

Google

CHAPTER

753

CXXXVII.

passer, hereafter executed or had, shall not enure to the benefit of
another such trespasser, and shall be no bar to an action or suit
against such other joint trespasser for the same cause of action to
which the release or accord and satisfaction relates.
8. Where judgments have been rendered since the twenty-fourth
day of March, one thousand eight hundred and seventy-three, or
may hereafter be rendered in actions ez delicto against several persons ~
jointly, and satisfaction of said judgments have bPe11, or may be,
made by any one or more of the said parties, the others shall be liable
to contribution to the same extent as if the judgments were upon
actions ex coniraetu,
ACTS REPEA1,ED.

2. All acts and parts of acts coming within the purview of this
act, and inconsistent therewith, are hereby repealed.

CHAPTER CXXXVII.
(Acts 11182, p, • SiO.)

OF THE FEES OF OFFICERS.
SECRETARY OF STATE.

1. The secretary may charge for services rendered in his office the
following foes to be paid by the person to whom the service is rendered, at the time it is done:
For a testimonial..
. . .. . . . ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . $1 50
For a copy of any paper, if one sheet. . .
. .. . . . .
I 00
And for each sheet after the first..
75
. For issuing a commission to a commissioner in any other state 5 00
For issuing a commission to each notary public.....
. .. 2 50
For making out a requisition for s fugitive from justice demanded of the executive authority of another state..
2 00
For issuing a warrant for the arrest of a fugitive from justice
demanded bythe executive authority of another state.
.. 2 00
OTHER OFFICERS.

2. Each of the other officers mentioned in this chapter may, for
services performed by virtue of his office, demand and receive the.
fees hereinafter provided for.
A SURVEYOR.

3. For all surveying actually done, (unless by special contraet.) for the first one hundred poles, or any less distance,
long measure, per pole........ . . ....... ......
..
01
After the first one hundred poles, long measure, per pole........
O!
For tracing and examining old surveys to ascertain the true bearing of lines, their distances and courses, or for doing surveying in
and about any mines, cities, towns and villages, the surveyor ma~
charge three dollars for every day necessarily so employed, in lieu
-,

Digitized by

Google

754

CHAPTER CXXXVII.

of charging by the pole; Provided, that nothing in this section shal]
prevent any party having surveying done, making a contract for a
different compensation.
For calculating the quantity of less than six courses or lines
50
When land is divided, for calculating each division if less than
six courses............
. . . . . . . . . . . . ..
50
For every course or line of more than six
03
For making .a plat of six courses or less...
50
For every course more than six. . . .
03
For recording a plat and certificate, if not more than six
courses......
.
. .
.
50
For any course above six.;
.
03
For a copy of a plat and certificate, where there are not more
than six courses .. .
50
For every course above six... ..........
. ..
.. . .
03
For a copy of an entry..................
50
For every search where no copy is required
25
For giving receipt for any paper:.
15
For traveling to the place of surveying and returning, per
mile....
. . ... . . . . .
. ..
O~
If surveying be done at different· places, on the same tour, the
mileage shall be apportioned among the different surveys according
to their distance from the residence of the F-urveyor or deputy and
each other, so that the surveyor shall not receive more than five
cents a mile for going and returning for any one trip.
4· ••

. •

...

••

•

•

..

.

A NOTARY PUBLIC.

4. When there is a protest by him, for the record thereof, making out instrument of protest under his official seal, aud
notice of dishonor to one person besides the maker of a
note or acceptor of a bilL
. .. .. . . . . . . .. . . .
1 00
For every additional notice.. .
10
For taking and certifying the acknowledgment of any deed or
writing, or taking and certifying the privy examination
and acknowledgment of a married woman....
50
For adm.inis!erin~ and certifying an oath, unless it be the affi-.
davit of a witness . . ... . . . . . . . . .... ... . ..... . . . .. .
25
For taking and certifying affidavits or depositions of witnesses
(except as provided in chapter sixty-six of this code) at
the rate for each hour actually employed in taking the
same, of..
75
For other services, the same fees as are allowed by law to the
clerk of the circuit court for similar services
COlDII8SIONER8 OF COURT8.

5. For any service, such fees as the court of which he is commissioner may from time to time prescribe, (except as provided
in chapter sixty-six of this code), not exceeding seventy-five

Digitized by

Google

VHAPTER

cxxxvn.

756

cents where less than an hour is employed, and if more than an
hour be employed, not exceeding the rate of seventy-five cents for
each hour, or in lieu thereof, twenty cents per hundred words, as the
commissioner may elect. A commissioner returning a report shall
annex thereto a certificate, under oath, that he was actually and necessarily employed for a number of hours, to be stated therein, in performing the services fpr which the fees stated at the foot thereof are
charged. Until such certificate is made, no such fees shall be allowed
or paid. A commissioner shall not be comnelled to make out or return a report until his fees therefor be pai ... ,·:· security given him to
pay so much as may be adjudged right by t, .. · ,·ourt to whom the report is to be returned, or if it be a circuit court, by the judge
thereof in vacation, unless the court or judge see cause to order it
to be made out and returned without such payment or security, and·
shall so order.
·
COMMISSIONERS OF ACCOUNTS.

6. For services rendered by any commissioner of accounts, thesame compensation shall be allowed for similar services as are herein
allowed to commissioners of courts.
CLERK OF THE COUNTY COURT.

7. When a writing is admitted to record by the clerk of the county
court:
For receiving proof or acknowledgment thereof, entering orders, writing on it cterk's certificate, statement of deeds
in list entered in order book, posting same, and embracing it in list for assessor, and indexing in general index
50
For recording in the deed book such writing, and all matter
therewith (except plats), or for recording anything not
otherwise provided, whether in the deed book, or elsewhere, for every thirty words......... ..
.
. ..
03
In lieu of the said allowance of three cents for every thirty words,.
the clerk may, for recording in the deed book, elect to charge the·
following specified fees, to-wit:
Where the writing is a deed of trust or mortgag-, or is a conveyance of real and personal estate, or of real estate only
76
Where it is not such..
.
50
For recording a plat of not more than six courses, or for a copy
thereof :.......
50
For every course above six............................. ....
.. .
03
For recording, indexing and noting release of lien...
50
For swearing the witnesses, and entering in the order or minute book all orders in relation to the proof of a will
which is admitted to record without contest, and copying
such order on the will or on a paper annexed thereto,
when fully proved and but one order. . .. . . . .. .. . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . .. .. .
7;i
If but partially proved on one day, for the order and entering

Digitized by

Google

756

CHAPTER

CXXXVII.

the same on the will or paper annexed thereto... . . . . .. . . . . . .
50
And for each subsequent order and entering the same on the
will or paper annexed thereto. . . .
50
For the same services where there is a contest.
2 00
For recording a will and the matter recorded therewith in the
will book, at the option of the clerk, three cents for every
thirty words, or a specific fee of.. .
. . . . . . . . . .. ... . . . .
,50
For entering orders and transmitting papers in case of an ap75

peal... . . .

If there be an order committing a decedent's estate to an officer, for entering and copying such order and the orders
of appraisement...........
If any personal representative or guardian qualify, for administering neceEsary oaths, making out bond, entering and
copying on the will order J?ranting probate or administration, making out copy of such order for personal representative or guardian, entering and copying orders of appraisement.... ....
........... ... ............ .... . . . .. .......... ..... ...........
If several personal representatives qualify on the same estate
at the same time or term, only the same fee shall be charged as if one had qualified, to-wit:............
.
For entering and copying an order granting a license to keep
a hotel or tavern where spirituous liquors are not sold..
For entering and copying an order granting a license to keep
a hotel or tavern where spirituous liquors are sold, administeriug oath and taking bond..
. .
. ..
. . . . . .. . .
On application for a marriage license, for administering and
writing certificate of oath, issuing and registering license
and recording and giving receipt for certificate of marriage..
.
·. . . . .
For a search for anything- in his office over a year's standing.
For recording a certificate and posting a copy thereof under
the second section of chapter sixtv-cne of thecode.
For docketing, under chapter one hundred and thirty-nine of
this code, a judgment, decree, bond or recognizance
For re-docketing the same when required.
. . . ... . . .
For making out a transcript of the record and proceedings in
any case in due form, so that the same may be used in an
appellate court, for Hery thirty words, three cents; and
for -uaking out in any other manner than copying, any
paper to go out of the office which is not otherwise provided fur, the same; or in lieu thereof, if the clerk elect, a
specific fee of...... . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . . ... . . ..... . . . . . . ... . . . . . . . .
For any copy, if it be not otherwise provided for, three cents
for e\·ery thirty words, or in lieu thereof, if the clerk elect,
a specific fee of . .. . . . . . . . . . .
.
.. . .
..
For annexing the seal of the court to any paper, writing the
certificate of the clerk accompanying it, and writing cer-

Digitized by

Google

50

1 00
1 00
1 00
2 00

1 00
25

50
35
35

50

35

CHAPTER

For
For
For
For
For
For
For

757

cxxxvn.

tificate for president of the court or judge, if the clerk be
required to do so
:........
..
recording and filing an inventory or sale bill, three cents
for every thirty words, or at the option of the clerk, a specific fee of................... . ............................. ...........................
entering an order confirming the report of a fiduciary........
recording· such report and the matter recorded therewith,
for every thirty words, three cent"; or in lieu thereof, if
the clerk elect, a specific fee of......... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . .•
recording any bond required by law to be recorded, including the certificate or other evidence of its execution.........
recording a mechanic's lien, three cents (or every thirty
words ; or at the option of the clerk, a specific fee of........
recording a certificate of real esttae claimed as a homestead..
. .
. .. . . . . . . .
.. .
... .
administering any oath not before provided for, and writing certificate thereof where the case requires one

50
50
50
50
50
50
50
15

A VLERK OF CIRCUIT COURT.

8. For issuing an attachment, or a summons to answer a bill,
with an endorsement thereon of an injunction, or order of
attachment, and recording the same .
.
.
75
Every order of publication, including the taking of the necessary affida vit t hereof delivering the same to the printer,
posting copy at the door of the court house, and the mak1 00
ing of the affidavit thereof.
.
For proct'ss for which.no other fee is allowed
.
40
For each copy of' a process which goes out of the office ( with
such process) to be used in serving it, one half the fee for
issuing such process.
~5
For issuing summons for witnesses
.
15
For every copy of such summons
.
For noting in the process book any decree, order or process,
25
acd taking receipt therefor ...
For postage paid by the clerk on any decree, order or process,
and putting in or taking out of the post-office the same,
three times the amount of such postage
For entering in any snit, or in a motion for judgment tor money, all the attorneys for each party, or the appearance in
proper person or a party having no attorney, who so appears
.
10
For endorsing and filing each petition, declaration, bill, answer, or other written pleading, each bill of exceptions,
each written notice of the defense relied on in ejectment,
or of a mot~on_ for judgment for money, and each report
of a comm1ss1oner
.
la
If when a bill, answer or report of a commissioner is filed,
. there be filed therewith any exhibit in which the clerk is

Digitized by

Google

"158

CHAPTER

CXXXVII.

required by law to endorse the names ot the parties and
the day it is filed, and he does so endorse them, for every
such exhibit.... .
. . . . . . ... ..... . . ... . . . .. . ... . .. . . ... ... . .... . . ..
Ji"'or endorsing and filing all the depositions and affidavits of
witnesses filed on the same side, or all written interrogatories from one party to another, or alJ the answers filed
to such interrogatories, or the exceptions filed by either
party. to a commissioner's report..
,lf papers be filed on the side of the plaintiff, for which no particu lar fee is allowed, a fee (not for each, but for the
whole) of. . . . . . . . ... . . .
. . . . . .. . . . . .. . . . .... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . .
So also, if pnpers be filed on the side of the defendant, for
which no par t icular fee is allowed, a fee (not for each,
but for the whole of such papers.) of. .
For issuing a eeire [acias and recording the return, where
proper tn do so
For issuing an attachment, with a copy of the rule or order
for the same (if -ent out therewith,) and recording the return thereof, where pr<lper to do so.
For entering in the rule hook the return of all proces.-; returnable the same day, a fee (not for each defendant named
therein, nor for enry such procei,.s, but for the whole oi
the defendants named in all such process) of . . . . . . . . .
For all the rules entered in any case on the same side at the rules
for one month, when anything i,; done on such side at said
ruJes, besides entering or filing a pleading or continuing
the case..
.
Where no proceedings are had in any case during any rules
except to continue it, the fee shall be at the rate of
twenty-five cents for every quarter of a year the case is so
continued and no more.
For docketing and continuing a cause at each term in which
there is no other order, except to continue the cause, or
where a cause is continued by operation of law.
"rhere a jury is impaneled, for swearing the jury and witnesses
·where no jury is impaneled, if witnesses be examined by the
court, for swearing such witnesses for either party.
\Vhere a witness claims for his attendance, for administering
an oath to him and certifying such attendance
For all judgments, decrees, orders and pre -eeedi ngs, ( except entries of pleadings and matters otherwise provided for,)
at the election of the clerk, three cents for every thirty
words actually written in the order hook, or a specific
fee in each case of
. . . ......... ...
For taxing costs in :-1 :1y case, on one side.
And if the case has been pending more than one year, then
for every additional year .

Digitized by

Google

10

60
25
25
75 .

50

50

50

50

75
25
:30

50
20
10

759

CHAPTER CXX.XVII.

For issuing an execution, the entry in the execution book and
the record of the return.......... ........ ...............................
50
F'or making out a transcript of the record and proceediugs in
anv c1'se in due form, so that the same may be used in an
appellate court, for every thirty words, three cents; and
for making out in any other manner than copying, any
paper to go out of the office, which is not otherwise provided for, the snme : or in lieu thereof, if the clerk elect,
a specific fee of
50
For any copy, if it be not otherwise provided for, three cents
for every thirty words, or in lieu thereof, if the clerk
elect, a specific fee of..........
. .. . .. . .. .. . .. . . .. .. .. .. .. .. ..
40
'For annexing the seal of the court to any paper, writing the
certificate of the clerk accompanying it, and writing certificate for the judge of the court, if the clerk be required
to do so....
.
50
For a wri~ of 1!1'pe,·sede.as or other writ issued on an appeal to
the circuit court....................................................................
50
For making out the bond, if one be required, upo:1 issuing
such writ, administering oaths and taking proper affidavits
·
50
Upon nny such writ, for endorsing and filing the petition
therefor, or when the writ is returned, for filing it with
the return thereof.
20
When the clerk of the court of appeals issues process on an
appeal, writ of error or eupersedeas, for making out the
bond, administering necessaryoaths and writing proper
affidavits, and endorsing on the process a certificate of the
execution of the bond, and of the names of the sureties
therein .
1 00
After a decision by the circuit court or court of appeals as
an appellate court, for issuing an execution, making entry
thereof in the execution book and recording return .
75
For taxing the damages to which a party may be entitled by
reason of an injunction, appeal, writ of error or supersedeas
50
For making out an injunction bond, administering all the necessary oaths, and writing the certificates thereof, and endorsing on the summons that such bond is given
1 00
For making out any bond under the provisions of chapter one
hundred and six of this code, administering the oaths and
writing the certificates in relation thereto, and for all that
is necessary to be <lone in relation thereto.. .
..
1 00
For making out any other bond not otherwise provided for,
administering all necessary oaths and writing certificates
thereof........... .... ................... ........... .........................
50
For any service not before provided for the same fees as a clerk of
a county court for similar services.

Digitized by

Google.

•

760

CHAPTER

CXXXYH.

CLERKS OF OOURT8 OF LIMITED JURISDICTION.

9. The clerks of courts of limited jurisdiction created in incorporated cities, towns and villages, shall have the same fee~ for their
services as clerks of the circuit courts for similar purposes.
CLERK OF THE COURT OF .APPEALS.

10. For fl Jing the record upon an appeal..... ... . . . . .. . . . . . . . . ... 1 00
For docketing an appeal to be charged but once.......... .
1 00
For entering judgment on an appeal, for every thirty words,
three cents, or the clerk may charge a specific fee of....... 1 50
For all other services not herein provided for, the clerk shall have
the same fees as the clerk of a circuit court for similar services.
SHERIFFS.

11. For serving on any person a declaration in ejectment,
or an order, notice, summons or other process where the
body is not taken, and making return thereof.
.
75
25
Except that the fee for summoning a witness shall be
.
For serving on any person an attachment or other process under which the body is taken
.
1 00
For levying an attachment on real estate and making his return..
.
.
3 00
1 00
For making any other levy
.
For carrying a prisoner to or from jail, for each mi le of nec05
essary travel either in going or returning ......
For taking any bond.
.
.
60
When a jury is sworn in court, for summoning and impan1 00
eling such jury .
1 50
For servi ng a writ of possession
For serving a writ of distringas on a judgment er decree for
personal property, if the specific thing be taken
I 50
For keeping and supporting any live stock distrained or levied
on as follows :
For a horse or mule, if well fed on grain aud hay or fodder,
thirty-five cents per day; but if the same be kept on pasture, twelve
cents per day, or such other sum in either case as the county court
may from time to time prescribe. But if a mare so. levied on and
kept have a sucking colt, no iee shall be allowed for keeping the
colt..
For a hog, five cents per day.
For each head of cattle, five cents per day.
For sheep and goats, each, one and one-half cents per day.
The officer shall be repaid any necessary expense incurred by him
in keeping property not before mentioned, or in removing any property; and when, after distraining or levying, he neither sells nor
receives payment, and either takes no bond or takes one which is
not forfeited, he shall, if guilty of no default, have (in addition to
the sixty cents for a bond, if one was taken,) a fee of three dollars,

Digitized by

Google

CHAPTER

761

CXXXVH.

unless this be more than half of what his commission would have ·
amounted to if he had received payment; in which case he shalJ,
(whether a bond was taken or not) have u fee of sixty cents at the
least, and so much more as is necessary to make the Haid half of his
commissions.
The commission to be included in a forthcoming bond (when one
is taken) shall be five per centum 011 the first three hundred dollars
of the money for which the distress or levy is made, and two per
centum on the residue of said money; but such commission shall
not be received in whole or in part, except as hereinbefore provided,
unless the bond be forfeited, or the amount (including the commission,) be paid to the plaintiff.
An officer receiving payment in money, or se11ing property, shall
have the like commission of five per centum on the first three hundred dollars of the money paid or proceeds from such sale, and two
per centum on the residue, except that when such payment or sale
is on an execution or a forthcoming bond, his commission shall he
only half what it would be if the execution were not on such bond.
FEES OF JUSTICF.S.

12. Every justice of the peace shall be entitled to charge and receive the following fees, viz:

For summons to commence
For
For
For
For
For
For
For

For

For
For
For
For
For
For
For
For
For
For

a suit.
every copy thereof.
every additional summons in same action .
a copy thereof
docketing an action commenced by appearance and agreement .
issuing order ot arrest, order of commitment, or order of
attachment.
.
.
every subpoena for witness
.
order of arrest against delinquent witnesses or jurors, or
in any case of contempt, and for trial and judgment in
such case...
..
.
.
swearing each witness, arbitrator or party
taking and certifying any affidavit in writing, twenty cents,
or ten cents per hundred words, at the option of the justice.
every continuance
. .. . .
.. .
.
.
appointing a guardian for the suit of an infant plaintiff or
def eudaut
.
appointing special constables at request of either party ..
settling ancl allowing interrogatories
.
entering agreement for arbitration ...
-summons to arbitrators.
.
.
every bond filed in the suit..
venire for jury, including the drawing for the same ...
trying a jury case ...

Digitized by

Google

20
10

15
10

:20
2,5
10

75
().5
10
10

25
25
10

15
25
25
75

762

CHAPTER CXXXVII.

For trying a case without a jury.. ....
.
..
For entering judgment.....................
For abstract of judgment for docketing in the office of the
clerk of the county court...........
...
...
For transferring a judgment on docket.. .~
For entering satisfaction of judgment.
For issuing execution and enteriug return thereof on his docket
For issuing every additional execution .
For entering stay of execution
, .. .. . . . ..
..
..
For trying right of property levied on or attached. ..
For taxing costs.i. . . . .. .. .... .. .. .. .. ...... . .. .... . . .. . ... .. . .. . . . . . .
..
For every process or order not otherwise provided for,...........
For transcript from docket, and other writings and 't!opies not
otherwise provided for, twenty· five cents, or ten cents per
hundred words, Ht the option of the justice.
For transmitting
or. delivering papers to clerk of the circuit court in case of an appeal.
For taking and certifying acknowledgment of deed or other
instrument of writing
If executed by a married woman, twenty-five cents in addition for certifying her examination and acknowledgement.
For taking depositions of witnesses, if done in an hour or less
Hnot done in an hour, for any additional time at the rate per
hour of
For taking an inquest on a dead body, to be audited and paid
from the treasury of the county
..
. .
. . . 5

50
25
25
25
10
40.

20
20
50
20
25

50

25
75
75
00

FEES OF CONSTABLE'S.

13. For removing a pers<in hy virtue of a warrant issued under
the thirteenth section of chapter forty-six, to be charged to the
county court of the county, five cents for each mile of necessary tra vel,
going and returning.
For service and return of summons to commence a suit, and
for everv additional summons
40
For serving ;nd returning order of attachment, twenty cents
for each garnishee summoned, and one dollar for taking
property, including inventory and appraisement, besides
the reasonable expenses of removing, securing and keeping the property attached.
For subpoena, for each per1-mn served therewith
:!f>
For summoning a jury and return of'venire
75
For levying an execution on personal property and return .. ..
30
For posting notices of sale..
40
For money made under execution or attachment and paid to
the party entitled thereto, five per cent.
For serving and returning other writs and notices not specified in this section, each........
..
. . ..
50
For executing a writ of possession under section two hundred

Digitized by

Google

763

CHAPTER CXXXYII.

and thirty-five of chapter fifty ..
.
.. .
2 00
For summoning n jury and witnesses for inquest on a dead
body to be audited and paid from the treasury of the county 3 00
For services not otherwise provided for, the same fees as
sheriffs tor similar cases.
FEE BILV, OF JV~TJCE~ AND CO~STABLES.

14. Except where it is otherwise provided, the fee bills of justices
and constables shall he chargeable to the persons at whose instance or
request the services were rendered. Such officers may issue their fee
bills against the person so chargeable, and place them in the hands
of any constable of the county in which the persons against whom
they are issued respectively reside. The officer collecting the same
may retain for h is compensation ten per cent. on the amount collected and paid over to the officer entitled thereto.
The succeeding
sections of this chapter, as far as they are applicable, shall govern
as to making out and collecting fee hills issued by a justice or constable.
l:J. If any justice or constable issue a foe hill for any service
against any person not chargeable therewith, or for a greater amount
than the law allows, he shall pay to the person against whom the
same i~ issued four times the amount !-O unlawfully charged, which
may be recovered by such person before auy court or any justice,
not interested, hadn,r jurisdiction.
Hi. For any service rendered by virtue of his office, for which a
fee i .. nllmncl hy law, except Ier-s ehargeahle to the stare 111· county,
the jlll-tiCP Or constable may require tl1e proper fee to he paid before
tlH' 1-en·i<·1· is r--ndered
17. Tl1t• justice -hn ll kt-cp a fev hook, or a memorandum or account upon his docket, so a~ to show underueath th- title of ench
suit, the costs nrndL· by each party, separately, for services rendered
at the instance or request of such party; and also, to whom the same
are du«, whether to himself, the constable, witnesses, or other persons; and shall note, from time to time, which 111' t!!'' i tr-m- ::r(· paid,
80 for as the facts may come to his know!1·dge.
18. The «osts to be included in the j11dg11H'nt or execution are
those made only by the party in whose tuvor t he judgment is rendered, and which have been paid hy him, or which he is bound to
pay, if the same he not col lectr-d from the adverse party.
But the
costs made by th- party against whom the j udgment is rendered,
and which he is bound to pay, may he separately endorsed or noted
on the execution, which shall then, as far as such costs are concerned, be equivalent to a fl·e bill.
When costs are included in an
execution, orendorsed or noted thereon, it shall show the same due
each person, whether justice, constable, witness, or other person ;
and the costs so note<l on the execution shall be collected and a<;counted for by the officer in whose hands the execution is, at the
same time and iu the same manner as the costs included in the execution.

Digitized by

Google

764

CHAPTER CXXXYII.
FEES OF JUSTICES IN CRIMINAL CASES.

19. Every justice shall be entitled to the following fees in criminal cases and proceedings before him, to be charged and recovered as
provided by the two hundred and twenty-seventh and two hundred
and twenty-ninth sections of chapter fifty.
For every recognizance or bond to keep the peace, or be of
good bebuvior..;
f;O
For everv warrant of arrest, or commitment..............................
30
For docketing case OD return of warrant of arrest executed......
30
For all set vices rendered at the instance of the defendant, the
same fees shall be charged as are allowed for similar services in civil cases ..
For trial he fore. a jury
..
75
For trial without a jury.
..
50
For every subpoena for one or more witnesses............................
20
For every copy thereof....................................... ..........................
10
For every. warr~nt to summon a jury
.'.................
10
Forswearing a Jury........................................................................
25
For swearing witnesses, ten cents each.
For ~nte.ring hisju_dgment on his docket, and taxing the costs
5G
For issumg execution.......... .........................................................
25
For granting an appeal, including taking the bond or recognizance, making and certifying a transcript of his docket,
and transmitting the same and the papers in the case to
the clerk of the circuit court, ten cents for every hundred
words, or in lieu thereof a specific fee of.......................
75
In all other cases the fees allowed in civil cases by law to other
county officers for similar services,
·
20: A justice shall be entitled in cases not otherwise provided for,
to the following fees, which shall be audited and paid by the county
court as other claims against the county.
For the warrant to arrest the person or persons accused, sud
take him before a justice for examination, including the
summoning of witnesses..........
25
For the examination of witnesses to ascertain whether such
warrant ought to be issued, and against whom...........
50
For the examination when the accused is apprehended and
brought before him................................................................
50
For recognizance of bail, warrant of commitment, or discharge
of the accused.
.. ..
50
For recognizance of witnesses, each..............................................
10
For a search warrant.........................................................
50
FEES OF CONSTABLES IN CRIMINAL CASES.

21. For an arrest in case of felony
For an arrest in case other than felony
Ji"or serving a subpcena
For executing a search warrant

Digitized by

, .. ,

Google

. 1 00
..
60
.
20
. 1 00

765

CHAPTER CXXXVII.

For services not otherwise provided for, the same fees as allowed to sheriffs.
In cases of search warrants, and proceedings nnder chapter one hundred and fifty-six of this code, the fees of constables
shall be chargeable to the county, and shall he audited and paid as
other claims of like nature by the county court. In criminal ccses,
other than felony, such fees shall be charged and paid as provided in
sections two hundred and twenty-seven and two hundred and twentynine of chapter fifty of this code.
FEES OF JAILERS IN BOTH CIVIL AND CRIMINAL CASES.

22. For receiving a person in jail, twenty-five cents, and the
like sum for discharging him therefrom.
For keeping and supporting a person confined in jail, for each
day
. . . . . . . .
50
Upon the affidavit of the jailer the county court shall allow him
out of the county treasury the amount actually paid for fuel necessary in heating the jail.
For attendance upon the circuit and county courts, and acting as
janitor of the court-house, he shall be allowed not exceeding one
hundred and fifty dollars per annum, to be ascertained and fixed by
the county court and pai<l out of the county treasury.
In cases of felony, the fees of the jailer shall be paid out of the
state treasury; in cases of misdemeanor they shall be paid out of
the connty treasury, and in civil cases by the party at whose instance
a person is committed to jail.

•

PA YME~T TO OFFICERS OUT OF THE TREASURY.

23. There shall be paid out of the treasury to clerks and sheriffs,
the following fees, after the same are duly certified to the auditor,
viz: ·
·
To a clerk of a circuit court for services rendered the state in a
civil case, such fees as would be chargeable for the like services of
an individual.
To a sheriff or other officer, for an arrest for felony, one dollar ;
and for conveying any person, charged with or convicted of felony,
to jail, or from one jail to another, or to the penitentiary, for each
mile in going and returning, ten cents. The officer shall also be allowed for the support of the prisoner during the removal, and for
assistance to make the arrest or effect the removal, such charge as
may have been necessarily incurred by him, to he shown by his own
affidavit, if living, or if he he dead, by the affidavit of some credible person; and where be has assistance, by the affidavit also of
each person employed by him, or by such of them as may be alive
and within the jurisdiction of the court, and if none of them be
alive or within the jurisdiction of the court, the court may allow
such claim upon his own affidavit : such charge for assistance not to
exceed, where it is making an arrest, one dollar per day for each

Digitized by

Google

766

CHAPTER CXXX VII.

person employed to assist him ; and not to exceed, where it is i11
conveying a prisoner, ten cents per mile going and returning, for
each guard ; for impaneling a jury in case of felony, one dollar;
and executing a sentence of death, five dollars in addition to the expenses actually incurred by the officer in its execution.
HOW FEES ARE CHARGED AND FEE BILLS :&{ADE OUT.

2-1. The fees mentioned in this chapter shall be chargeable to the
party at whose instance the service is performed ; except the fees for
entering and certifying the attendance of witnesses and proceedings
to compel payment for such attendance, shall be charged to the party
for whom the witness attended, and except also, as follows :
No clerk shall charge for taking bond from, administering oaths
to, or copying orders as to the appointment or qualification of any
county, school or district officer, or for filing the bonds or oaths of
any such officer, nor for making or copying orders as to county
levies or grand juries and administering the necessary oaths.
No sheriff shall charge for serving such or nny other public orders
nor for summoning and impaneling grand juries.
No clerk or sheriff shall receive payment out of the treasury for
any service rendered in cases of the state, except where it is allowed
bv law.
• 25. Every clerk of a court shall keep a fee book, wherein shall be
entered the fee~ for every service performed by him, and the fact of
such fees being paid, or of a bill being made out therefor, whichever
shall happen first. The fee books of a clerk shall be submitted to
the inspection of commissioners appointed to examine the clerk's
office.
· 26. No person sha11 be compelled to pay any fees before mentioned, until there be produced to him a fee bill signed by the officer
to whom the fees are due, expressing the particulars for which such
fees are charged.- .And no such fee bill shall be made out for any
service not previously performed, except as hereinafter provided,
unless a person desire to pay before such performance, in which case
there shall be mentioned in such fee bill the nature of the service
and the fact that it is to be performed. Nor shall an officer, for
anv service, make out a fee bill for more than is allowed therefor.
Nor shall he, for the same service, attempt to obtain payment a sec..
ond time; nor ever make out a fee bill a second time, unless he endorse the fact and swear that the former bill remains unpaid. For
each item in which an officer shall violate this section, he shall forfeit five dollars to any person prosecuting therefor, and the circuit
court of the county in which an officer resides, may on motion, after
reasonable notice to him, quash any fee bill made out by him contrary to law. But any officer may demand his fees in advance for
any particular service required to be performed by him for any person not residing in his county, and if such fess be not paid or secured to him, the officer may refuse to perform the service until they

Digitized by

Google

767

CHAPTER CXXXVU.

are paid or secured. In such cases the fee bill shall state the nature
of the service, and that it is to be performed.
HOW BILLS ARE MADE OUT FOR FEES DUE A. DECEASED CLERK.

27. When a clerk dies, his successor shall charge in the fee books
of the clerk's office such la wfu] fees as do not appear to have been
. charged therein, for services performed by the decedent, and make
out fee bills fur such fees, and also for any fees charged on the said
books by the decedent for which he does not appear to have made
out 1ee bills in his lifetime; except that such of those as appear to
said successor to be for more than is allowed by law, shall be reduced
by him FIO fur as in his judgment is necessary to make them legal.
28. The fee bills made out under the preceding section shall show
on their face that they are for fees due the decedent, and shall be
signed by his successor, and delivered to the personal representative
of such decedent, as soon ns practicable. Such successor shall receive for his services, under this and the preceding section, such
compensation as the court whereof he is clerk shall adjudge to be
reasonable, which shall be paid by said personal representative, or by
the officer who may collect said foe bills, out of the first proceeds of
said collection.
HOW FEE BILLS ARE COLLECTED AND ACCOUNTED FOR.

29. Any officer mentioned in this chapter, or the personal representative of a deceased clerk may, on or before the first day of July
in any year, deliver fee bills, duly signed, to any sheriff or collector
of the public taxes, who shall receive and endeavor to collect the
same. A sheriff or collector may distrain therefor, or for any fee
bills due himself, such property of the person tu whom the fees are
charged as might be levied on under a writ of fieri faciae against
him, except as hereinafter mentioned, and the twelfth, thirteenth and
fourteenth seerions of chapter thirty of thi- code shall apply to such
fee bills in like manner as to taxes.
30. Every sheriff or collector to whom such fee bills are so delivered,
shall, on or before the first day of January next after such delivery,
account therefor with the officer or the personal representative entitled thereto, by returning such as he may not have collected, with
the endorsement thereon, of the words, "No property found;" and
by paying to such officer or his legal representative, the
amount of all not so returned. If he fail so to do, judgment may
be obtained, on motion, ngninst said sheriff or collector, and his
sureties, and his and their personal representatives, or against any
deputy who may have signed the receipt for said fees, or his personal
representative, for the amount with which such sheriff, collector or
deputy is chargeable, and damages thereon, not exceeding fifteen per
centum per annum, from the said first day of January till payment.
Such judgment may be on motion in the circuit court of the county
in which said sheriff or collector resides, and if the fees be due to the

Digitized by

Google

768

CHAPTER CXXXVII.

clerk of the court of appeals, it may be in the circuit court of the
county in which the seat of government may be. On such motion
any receipt for fees mentioned in the notice as signed by any person,
shall be deemed to he his signature, unless an affidavit be filed denying it, and shall be prima facie evidence of the collection of all
the fees mentioned therein, not returned as aforesaid.
31. No fee shall be co11ected by distress or suit after two years .
from the end of the year in which the service was performed that is
charged therein ; unless within two. years before the institution of
such proceeding it was returned by an officer, with endorsement
thereon (properly dated) as is mentioned in the preceding section.
32. An officer or witness to whom, for fees or attendance, anything
is due that is taxed in the costs for which there is judgment or decree, mny, within ten days after such judgment or decree, lodge in
the clerk's office ot the court wherein the same is rendered, his fee
bills for such fees, or certificate for such attendance. The amount
due each officer or witness, for what is so lodged, shall, and the
amount due the clerk himself for fees so included, may, within the
said ten days, be noted in the margin .of the order or execution
book, opposite the entry of the case. An officer or witness, whose
fees or certificate may be so noted, shall be paid the same out of the
costs, by the person against whom the judgment or decree is; and
the right to such payment shall be valid against any assignee of the judgment or decree. When the clerk issues execution in- such case,
he shall endorse thereon how much of said costs is for each officer or
witness whose fees or certificate mny be so noted ; and the officer
collecting said costs shall pay the same accordingly, to those entitled
thereto. No officer mentioned in this chapter shall be obliged to
perform services for any person out of his county, unless payment of
his fees for said service be made or secured ; nor to perform services for
any person against whom he has had foe hills returned, which remain unsatisfied, unless he be secured payment of his foes for the
services desired, or performance of said services be directed by a
court.
33. In all criminal cases, other than felony, search warrants and
proceedings under chapter one hundred and fifty-six of this code,
the fees of justices and constables shall be charged to the county,
and audited and paid as other claims against the county, except,
that if there is no conviction before the circuit court, then the person making the complaint before the justice shall pay said fees, and
the county shall in no event, unless there is a conviction as aforesaid, and the fines and costs be collected therein, be liable for or
pay any such fees.
ACTS REPEALED.

2. Chapters ten and fifty-one of the acts of eighteen hundred and
seventy-two and three, and all acts and parts of acts coming within
the purview of this act, and inconsistent therewith, are hereby repealed.

Digitized by

Google

CHAPTER

769

CXXXVIII.

CHAPTER CXXXVIII.
(Acta 1882, p. 466.)

OF OOSTH GENERALLY.
PRIVILEGE EXTENDED TO POOR PERSONS.

L A poor person may be allowed by a court to sue or defend a suit
therein without paying fees or costs, whereupon he shall have, from
any counsel which the court may assign him, and from all officers,
all needful services and proeess, and also the attendance of witnesses,
without any fees to them therefor, except what may be included in
the costs recoverable from the opposite party.
SECl:RITY FOR COSTS.

2. In any suit (except where such poor person is plaintiff) there
may be a suggestion on the record in court, or if the case be at rules,
on the rule docket, by a defendant 01· any officer of the court, that
the plaintiff is not a resident of this state, and that security is required of him. After sixty days from such suggestion, the suit
shall by order of the court. be dismissed, unless before the dismission
the plaintiff be proved to be a resident of the state, or security be
given before said court, or the clerk thereof for payment of the
costs which may be awarded to the defendant, and of the fees due,
or to become due, in such suit, to the officers of the court. The security shall he hy bond payable to the state; but there need only be
one obligor therein, if he be sufficient. The court before whose clerk
such bond is given, may on motion by a defendant or officer, give
judgment for so much as he is entitled to by virtue of said bond.
3. On motion of an obligor in such bond, after reasonable notice
to the plaintiff, his attorney-at-law or agent, the court may order a
new bon<l to he given, with sufficient security, in a penalty equal to
the penalty of the former hond. If the hond required under this
section he not giYen within such time as the court may prescribe, it
may order the suit to be dismissed. If such new bond be given, the
surety in the former one shall he relieved from ~my liability he
might have incurred because of having executed or acknowledged
the same. After the notice has been given to the plaintiff, his attorney or agent, no further proceedings shall be had in said cause,
until such new bond is given with sufficient security, or a sufficient
excuse is given for not exec~ting the same.
CASE,'- WHEREI:S COSTS ARE RECOVERED.

4. Upon any motion, (other than for a judgment for money) or
upon any interlocutory order or proceeding, the court may give or
refuse costs, at its discretion, unless it be otherwise provided. It
may, when a demurrer is sustained to a plea in abatement, give
judgment for the plaintiff for his full costs to the time of sustaining
it, and when any part of the proceedings is adjudged insufficient,
order all costs occasioned by such insufficient pleading to be paid byhim who committed the fault.

Digitized by

Google

770

CHAPTER CXXXVIII.

5. New trials may be granted upon the payment of costs, or with
the costs to abide the event of the suit, as to the court may seem
right.
If the party who is to pay the costs of the former trial fail
to pay the same at or before the next term after the new trial is
granted the court may, on the motion of the opposite party, set
aside the order granting it, and proceed to judgment on the verdict
or award execution for said costs, as may seem to it best.
Where a
case is continued at the costs of a party against the consent of the
opposite party, the court may, in its discretion award an execution
for the costs of such continuance.
6. In any personal action
not on contract, which might he
brought and prosecuted to judgment in a justice's court, if a verdict be found for the plaintiff on au issue or otherwise, for less dam ..
ages than fifty dollars, he shall not recover, in respect to such verdict, auy costs, unless the court enter of record that the object of the
action was to try a right besides the mere right to recover damages
for the trespass or grievance in respect of which the action was
brought, or that the said trespass or grievance was willful or malicious.
7. In any personal action on contract, wherein it is ascertained
that not more is due the plaintiff than fifty dollars, exclusive of interest, judgment shall be given for the defendant, unless the court
enter of record that the matter in controversy was of greater value
than fifty dollars, exclusive of interest ; in which case it may give
judgment for the plaintiff for what is ascertained to be due him,
with or without costs, as to it may seem right.
8. Except where it is otherwise provided, the party for whom final
judgment is given in any action, or in a motion for judgment for
money, whether he be plaintiff or defendant, shall recover his costs
against the opposite party ; and' when the action is against two or
more, and there is a judgment for or discontinuance as to some but
not all of the defendants, unless the court enter of record that there
was reasonable cause for making defendants those for whom there
is judgment, or as to whom there is such discontinuance (and order
otherwise) they shall recover their costs.
9. When a suit is in the name of one person for the benefit of any
other, if there be a judgment for the defendant's cost, it shall be
against such other.
10. The laws of costs shall not be interpreted as penal laws; nor
shall anything in this chapter take away or abridge the discretion of
a court of equity over the subject of costs, except as follows:
11. In every case in an appellate court, costs shall be recovered
in such court by the party substantially prevailing.
HOW

ANT> WHAT COST:oi ARE TO BE TAXED.

12. The clerk of a court wherein a party recovers costs shall tax
the same.
13. He shall-include in the costs to the prevailing party:

Digitized by

Google

771

CHAPTER CXXXVIII.

I. In an action at law, not less than two and a half nor more than
ten dollars, as the court may prescribe.
II. In a chancery cause, not less than fifteen nor more than twenty
dollars, as the court may prescribe.
To the party prevailing in the court of appeals, thirty dollars.
In civil cases in a municipal court, the same fees as are allowed in
a circuit court for like cases.
14. The clerk shall tax in the costs all fees of officers which the
said party appears to be chargeable with, in the case wherein the rec<,very is, except that where, in :my court on the same side, mere
than one copy of anything is obtained or taken out, in which- may
be included a copy of any pleading in a pending case, ·there shall be
taxed only the fee for one copy of the same thing. He shall also
tax fifty cents for each legal notice from such party therein, served
in this state, r.nd not otherwise taxed.
15. The price for publishing all advertisements and publications
required to be made by law, or by the order of a court, in any cause
or proceeding therein, or by any provision of a deed of trust, or
where any publication is made pursuant to law and no price is
named, shall not exceed one cent and a quarter for each word for the
first insertion, an<l the half of one cent for each word for every subsequent insertion required to be made; and if no newspaper in
which such publication may be made will insert the same for the
time required, or the price aforesaid, then the notice shall be posted
by the person whose duty it is to have the publication made, at the
front door of' the court house of the county in which the cause is
pending, or the proceedings had, at least four weeks prior to the time
fixed for executing the order, decree or deed, or for the accomplishment of the purpo~e of said publication, and copies of said notice
shall be posted at least four other public places in said county at
the same time, and a copy of the same shal1 be sent by the person
whose duty it is to post, by mail, postage paid, to each party interested in such publication, directed to such person at his last known
post-office. In any case the price paid for such publication or posting and postage shall be taxed in the bill of costs, and an affidavit
shall be filed by the person posting the notice, showing the fact that
the notice was posted as required by this section, and the further fact
that no new8paper published in the county, or having a general circulation therein, would publish the notice upon the terms mentioned above, and the same facts shall be stated in the decree or order entered under the notice thus posted.
16. The clerk shall include in the: costs, for fees of the prosecuting attorney, the fo1lowing: In cases of misdemeanor, or an action upon a bond for a violation of the license laws, ten dollars. In
a case of bastardy, ten dollars. In a suitor proceeding upon a forfeited recognizance upon behalf of the state, five per cent. upon the
amount recovered and paid into the treasury. In cases of felony,
thirty dollars. In any other case of 'the state, if a different fee is

Digitized by

Google

'172

CH~PTER CXXXIX.

not/rescribed, ten dollars. But such fees shall not in any case be
pai out of the county or state treasury.
17. In a case wherein there is judgment or decree, on behalf of
the state, for costs, there shall be taxed in the costs, the charge actually incurred to give any notice, although it be more than fifty cents
and mileage, and the fees of attorneys and other officers for services
and allowances for attendance, as if such fees and allowances were
payable out of the treasury. What is so taxed for fees of, or allowance to, any person shall be paid to him by the sheriff or officer who
may receive said costs, unless such person shall previously have received payment thereof, in which case the same shall be paid into
the treasury.
ACTS REPEALED.

2. All acts and parts of nets coming within the purview of this
act, and inconsistent with its provisions are hereby repealed.

CHAPTER CXXXIX.
( ..\ct, 1882 p. :l.'ill.)
01'' ENFORCING DECREES AND ORDERS; DOCKETING JUDGMENTS AND OF OTHER
LIENS 01" THE LIKE NATURE; TltF. }~FFF.CT OF sucrr LIENS; AND THE
LIMITATION OF l'ROCEEDINGS ON Jt:D<iMENTS.

DF.CREES AND ORDERS ON THE FOOTING OF JUDGMENTS.

1. .A decree for land or specific personal property and a decree or
order requiring the payment of money, shall have the effect of a
judgment for such land, property or money, and be embraced by the
word "jndg-ment" where used in this or any of the three succeeding
chapters. But a party may proceed to carry into execution a decree
or order in chancery, other than for the payment of money, as he
might have <lone if this and the following section had not been enacted.
·
2. The persons cnt itlen to the benefit of any decree or order requiring the payment of mon<'y shall he deemed judgment creditors,
although the monpy may hP required to he paid into a court, or a bank
or other place of depo ... it. In such case, an execution on the decree
or order shall make such recital thereof, and of the parties to it ae
may be necess~ry to designate the ease; and if a time be specified in
the deoree or order within wh ich the pny ment is to be made, the execution shall not issue until the expiration of that time.
DOCKETINGJUHG)lENTS A.XD OTHER LIE~S OF A LIKE NATURE.

3. In the following section the wor<l "jud~ment " shall include
any undertaking, Lund or recognizance which has the force of a
judgment.
4. The clerk of every circuit and municipal court shall, without
delay, make out and deliver a <luly certified abstract of every judgment rendered by such court, an<l every justice of the peace shall
without delay make out and deliver a duly certified abstract of every
judgment rendered by him or by any other justice, the docket of
which is in his possession and under his control, to any person in-

Digitized by

Google

CHAPTER

773

CXXXIX.

terested therein who may demand the same, and pay or tender the
fee therefor, in which abstract shall be stated the names in full of
the plaintiff or plaintiffs, and the defendant or defendants, as they
appear in the papers and proceedings in the cause, and if the defendants are sued as partners the partnership name shall be stated ; the
amount of the judgment and the amount of the eosts, stating each
sepasately ; the value of specific property (if any) recovered by it,
and the damages (if any) for its detention; the date of the judgment
and the court in which, or the justice by whom, the judgment was
rendered. Any clerk or justice who shall fail to deliver such .abstract as herein required shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and fined
fifty dollars, And the clerk of every county court shall keep in his
office in a we11-bound book a judgment docket, in which he shall
docket without delay any judgment in this state upon the delivery
to him of such authenticated abstract thereof for that purpose and
the payment or tender of his fee therefor. In such docket there
shall be stated, in separate columns:
I. The names in full of the plaintiff or plaintiffs, and the defendant or defendants, as they are stated in such abstract, and if it appear by such abstract that the defendants were eued as partners,
their partnership name shall also be stated.
II. The amount of the judgment aud of the costs, stating each
separately.
III. The value of any specific property recovered by the judgment, and the damages, (if any,) for its detention.
IV. The date of the judgment.
V. The court in which, or the justice by whom it was rendered.
VI. The date of docketing the judgment.
Every judgment docketed by the clerk of the county court as
aforesaid, shall at the same time be indexed by him in an index to
be kept in or annexed to said judgment docket, in the full name of
the defendant, and it more than one defendant, in the full name of
each, as they appear in the said abstract. If the defendants are sued
as partners, it shall also be indexed in the partnership-name appearing by such abstract. Any clerk of a county court failing to per.form any duty required of him by this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and fined fifty dollars, and he and his securities in his
.official bond shall moreover be liable to any person injured by such
failure for all such damages as he may sustain by reason thereof.
LIEN OF JUDGMENTS OX REAL EST.ATE.

5. Every judgment for money rendered in this state heretofore orhereafter, against any person, shall be a lien on all real estate of or
to which such person shall be possessed or entitled at or after the
date of such judgment, or, if it was rendered in court, at or after
the commencement of the term at which it was so rendered, except
as follows:
6. No judgment shall be a lien on real estate as against a pUl"•

Digitized by

Google

774

CHAPTER. CXXXIX.

chaser thereof for valuable consideration without notice, unless it
be docketed according to the third and fourth sections of this chapter in the county wherein such real estate is, either with in sixty days
next after the date of the judgment or before a deed therefor to said
purchaser is delivered for record to the clerk of the county court.
Prooidcd, That the judgment of a justice of the peace shall not be
a lien on real estate as against R,1.1ch purchaser, · nntil the same is
docketed as ,fore~aid.
~WITS TO E~FORCE JCD(DIE!,.T LIENS.

1. The lien of a judgment may always be enforced in a court of
equity.
If ·it appears to such a court that the rents and profits of
the real estate subject to the lien will not satisfy the judgment in
five years, the court may decree the said estate, or any part thereof,
to be sold nnd the proceeds applied to the discharge of the judgment. In every such suit all persons having liens on the real estate
sought to be subjected by judgment or otherwise, shall be made parties
plaintiff or defendant, or if the number of such persons exceed ten
the suit may be brought by any one or more of them, for the benefit
of himself, and such other lien holders as will come in and contribute to the expenses of the suit. And whether the suit be so brought
or not, every such lieu holder, whether he be named as a party to
the suit or not, or whether he be served with process therein or not,
may present, prove and have allowed any claim he may have against
the judgment debtor, which is a lien on such real estate, or any part
thereof, and from and after tho time he presents any such claim he
shall be deemed a party plaintiff in such suit. No decree for the
distribution of the proceeds of such real. estate shall be made until
a notice to all persons holding liens on the real estate of the judgment debtor be posted and published, under a decree of the court,
as hereinafter provided.
Such notice shall be sufficient if it be in
form or effect as follows :
":N"OTICETO LIEN HOLDERS.

To all persons holding liens by judgment or otherwise, on the
real estate, or any part thereof, of A-B--:
In pursuance of a decree of the circuit court of
county,
made in a cause therein pending, to subject the real estate of the
said A-R-to the satisfaction of the liens thereon, you are
hereby required to present all claims held by you and each of you
against the said A--· B--,
which are liens on his real estate, or
or any part of it, for adjudication to me, at my office, in the county
(or city, town or village, as the case may be,) of
, on or before
the -day of--.
Given under mv band this -day of--.

-

c-·-

D--,

Commissioner."

Such notice shall be published once in each week, for four successive weeks, in some newspaper printed in the county, or if none
be printed therein, in some newspaper of general circulation in the

Digitized by

Google

CHAPTER

775

CXXXIX.

oounty,and posted at the front door of the court-house of such
county at least four weeks before the day mentioned in the notice;
and such publishing and posting of such notice shall be equivalent
to the personal service thereof on all per .sons holding liens on any
such real estate, unless the court shall in the decree directing such
notice to be so published and posted otherwise order. The commissioner to whom the case is referred bv such decree shall as soon
as possible after tl-we said notice is published and posted as aforesaid,
or served in such manner as the court may order, proceed to ascertain und report all the lieus on the real estate or any part thereof of
the judgment debtor, the holders of such liens, the amount due to
each, and the priorities thereof, and such other matters and things
as the court by its decree may direct, and the same proceedings shall
be had on such report as in other suits in chancery.
When the re' port of any such commissioner is confirmed, if the claims therein
reported (if any) he not paid, the court shall decree that the real estate of the judgment debtor, subject to such lien or liens, so far as
as may be necessary, shall he rented or sold, and the proceeds thereof
distributed among the several lien holders who have appeared and
proved their liens and claims, according to their several priorities
(if any); which decree shall be a bar to the claim of any lien
holder who has not appeared and presented his claim to said commissioner, as required by said notice; except that if a surplus remain after the payment of the claims so presented and proved, and
confirmed by the court, the lien holder so failing to appear may shure
in such surplus, upon proving his claim at any time before a final
decree in the case, in such manner as the court shall direct. But if
he fail to present his claim before such final decree, he shall be forever barred of all right to participate in the proceeds of such real
estate, so far as the other creditors of said judgment debtor, holding
liens on his _real estate, who have not so failed, are concerned, and
so far as the creditors at large of such judgment debtor are concerned. If, pending any such suit, a judgment at law be recovered by
any person against such judgment debtor, such person may present
his claim to the commissioner and have it adjudicated and allowed
in the same manner and to the same extent as if the judgment had
been obtained before the institution of such suit. And he may present such claim to the court after the report is made, and before the
entering of a decree distributing the proceeds of the sale of such real
estate, and have the same adjudicated and passed upon by the court
and if found to be correct, and a lien upon such real estate, the
court shall allow and confirm the same, and provide for the payment thereof in the decree of the sale and distribution.
If after the
commencement of such suit any lien holder commence any other
suit or proceeding in or out of court to enforce a lien claimed by
him on the real estate, or any part thereof, of the judgment debtor,
upon which a lien is sought to be enforced by such suit, the court,
or the judge thereof in vacation may enjoin him from so doing, and

Digitized by

Google

176

CHAPTER

CX.XXIX.

require him 10 come in and assert his lieu in such snit or make such
order or decree in relation thereto as to such court or judge may
seem right and proper to protect the interests of all parties having
such liens.
IN WHAT ORDER REAJ~ ESTATE TO BE SUBJECTED TO THE SATl8FACTION OP
LIENS IN CERTAIN CA::!E8, ETC.

8. Where the real estate liable to the lien of a judgment is more
than sufficient to satisfy the same, and it, or any part of it, has been
aliened. as between the alienees for value, that which was aliened
last shall, in equity, be first liable, and so on with other successive
alienations until the whole judgment is satisfied. And as between
alienees who are volunteers under such judgment debtor, the same
rule as to the order of liability shall prevail. But any part of such
real estate retained by the debtor himself shall be first liable to the
satisfaction of the judgment.
9. ,vhere two or more judgments are rendered against the same
person, and the lien thereof on his real estate commences on the
same day, the creditors having such judgments shall he entitled to
satisfaction out of said real estate ratably,
LIMlTATIONS 01" PROCEEDINGS TO ENFORCEJt.;D(.iME~TS,

10. On a judgment, execution may be issued within two years after the date thereof, or if none be so issued, the court in which the
judgment was rendered may thereafter, and within ten years from
the date of the judgment, upon ten days notice to the party against
whom the same is, order an execution to issue thereon for such sum
as remains unpaid. ":rhere execution issues within two years as
aforesaid, other executions may be issued on such judgment without
notice, within ten years from the return day of the last execution
issued thereon 011 which there is no return by an officer, or which
has been returned unsatisfied. And an action, suit or eeire faeiaa
may be brought upon a judgment on which no execution issued
within the said two years, or where there has been a change of parties by death or otherwise, at any time within ten years next after
the date of the judgment. But if such action, suit or ecire [aelas be
against a "personal representative of a decedent, it shall be brought
within five years froi11 the qualification of such representative.
11. Xo execution shall issue, nor any action, snit or selre [acias be
brought on any judgment in this state after the time prescribed in the
preceding section, except that in computing the time, the period
mentioned in the fourth section of chapter one hundred and thirtysix of this code, and any time during which the right to sue out execution on the judgment is suspended by the terms thereof, or by le·
gal pl'Ocess, shall be omitted from the computation; and the six·
teenth, seventeenth, eighteenth and nineteenth sections of chapter
one hundred and four of this code shall apply to the right to bring
such action, suit or scire [acias, in like manner as to any right, ac-

Digitized by

Google

CHAPTER

777

CXL.

tion, suit or seire [aeia« mentioned in those sections; and except that
when the judgment is for the penalty of a bond, but to be discharged
by the payment of what is then ascertained, and such sums as may
be afterwards assessed or found due upon a sclre faciae 011 the judgment, assigning a further breach of the bond, such scire [acias may
be brought within ten yPars after such breach.
12. A -notion against au officer or his sureties, or his or their representatives, for a failure to return au execution, shall be made
within ten years from the return day thereof and not after.
NOTICE OF LIS P~NDENS.

13. The pendeney of an action, suit, attachment or proceedings
to subject real estate to the payment of any debt or liability, upon
which a previous lien shall not have been acquired in some one or
more of the methods prescribed by Jaw, shall not bind or affect a
purchaser of such real estate, for a valuable consideration, without
notice, unless and until a memorandum, setting forth the title ot the
cause: the court in which it is pending; the general object of the
suit, attachment, or other proceeding, the location and the quantity
of the land, as near as may be, and the name of the person whose estate therein is intended to be affected hy the action, suit, attachment
or proceeding, shall be filed with the clerk of the county court of the
county in which the land is situated. The clerk of every such
county court shall without delay record the said memorandum in
the deed book, and index the same in the name of both the parties.
ACTS REPEALED.

2. All acts and parts of acts coming within the purview of this
act, and inconsistent with the provisions thereof, are hereby repealed.

CHAPTEH. CXL.
OF EXECUTIONS FOR SPECIFIC PROPERTY, AND OF WRITS OF FIERI
FACIA8.
AS TO ISSUING EXECUTIONS GENERAJ,LY.

1. Against a corporation such executions may issue as against a
natural person. .And where a judgment is against several persons
jointly, executions thereon shall be joint against them all.
~. On a judgment tor. money, there may be issued a writof fieri
facias, but no writ of levari facias or elegit shall be issued hereafter;
nor a writ of distringas, except on a judgment for specific personal
property.
3. Where an execution issues 'on a judgment for the benefit, in
whole or in part, of any person other than the plaintiff if the fact
appear by the record, the clerk shall, in the execution or an indorsement thereon, state the extent of the interest therein of such person;
and be (either in his own name or that of the plaintiff) may, as a
party injured, prosecute a suit or motion against the officer.

Digitized by

Google

778

CHAPTER CXL.
OF EXE<;UTIO~S FOR SPECIFIC PROPERTY.

4. On judgments for the recovery of specific property, rm] or personal, a writ of possession may issue for the specific property, which
shall conform to the judgment as to the description of the property,
and the estate, title, or interest recovered : and there may also be
issued a writ of fieri 'faelas for the damages or profits and costs.
OF TIIE WRIT OF FIEHI FACI..\S.

5. B'" a writ of fieri facias, the officer shall be commanded to make
the money therein ment ioned out of the goods and chattels of the
person against whom the judgment is. The writ may lw levied as
we ll on the current money and bank notes as on the goo<l~ and chattels of such 1wrso11s; sud as against purchasers for valuable cousideration without notice and creditors, shall bind what it may he levied
on onlv from the time that the writ is delivered to the officer to be
t•xecut~d.
f5. If the levy be upon gold or silver coin, the same shall be accounted for at its par value as so 'much money made under the execntion. If it be 1:pon hank notes, and the creditor will not take
them at their nominal value, they shall he sold and accounted for as
any other property taken under execution.
't. Every officer shall endorse on each writ of fini facias the year,
month, day, aud time of day, he receives the same.
If he fail
do
so, the judgment creditor may, by motion, recover against him and
his sureties, jointly and severally, iu the court in which the judgment was rendered, a sum not exceeding fifteen per centuru npon the
amount of the execution.
8. Of writs of fieri [aeias, that which was first delivered to the
officer, though two or more be delivered on the same day, shall be
first levied and satisfied; and where several such executions are delivered to the officer at the same time, they shall be satisfied rutably.
9. C pon a writ of.fie,·i [acias, the officer shall retern whet her the
money therein mentioned is or cannot be made; or if there be only
part thereof which is or cannot he made, he shall return the amount
of such part. ,vith every execution under which money is recov-:
ered, he shall return a statement of the amount received including
his fees and other charges; and such amount, except the said fees
and charges, he shall pay to the person entitled, or to his agent or
attorney.
10. 1f at any sale by an officer, the purchaser shall not comply
with the terms :of sale, the officer may sell the property, either
forthwith or under a new advertisement, or return that the property was not sold for want of bidders. If, on a re-sale, the property be
sold for less than it sold for before, the first purchaser shall be liable
for the difference to the creditor, so far as is required to satisfy him,
and to the debtor for the balance.
This section shall not prevent
the creditor from proceeding as he might have done if it had not
been enacted.

to

Digitized by

Google

779

CHAPTER CXL.
OF THE WRIT OF YESDITIONI

EXPONA8.

I I. \Yh(•n it appear:-. by the return on an execution, that property taken to ~.tfo,fy it remains unsold, a writ of vendirioui
exponlis mny j.;8U<.'; whereunor. the like proceedings shall he had as
might have been had on the first execution, except that if it issue
upoll a return of uo sale for want of bidders, or of a sufficient bid,
the notice shall stute the fact, and that the sale will be made perPm ptori I y.
12. If an ufftcPr, tuk ing property under execution, die before
the sale thereof, and there be no deputies (of such officer) acting
in the <':i,:,;e, upon a :,:ugge:--tio11 of the fact, a writ of vouditioni exponas may b(~ di rccted to -uch sheriff or other officer of the county
wherein the property was taken, us muy be in office at the time the
writ issues.
"'hen·upon the representatives of the officer so dying
shall deliver the prop<>rty to the officer to whom the writ is directed.
If thoy fail so to do, on his producing the said writ, and executing
a receipt for the property to them, or if, after three months from
the death of such officer, he have no personal representative, upon
a return of the fact, execution may be issued, by virtue of which
such sherifl or other officer of the county may seize the said property.
An officer seizi11g or receiving property nuder this section shall sell
it uud a.(·eount therefor as if the levy on it had been by himself.
WU.\T :\!ONEY IU:CEIH:l>

L':,.il>EHEX!·:CVTION I~ TO BE PAIL> TO THE HEllTOH;
OFF1c•:1t ~OT OIH,I(; El> Tl) uo orr OF HIS COl"NTY TO PA y &IONEY.

1:1. Whnc• an oflic·er has received money under execution, if auy
surplus remain in his bands utter satisfying the execution, such
surplus shall he repaid to the debtor; and if the. debtor or his pcrsonal representative obtain an injunction or appeal staying an execution, in whole or in part, before money received under it, or any part
of it, is paid over to the creditor, the officer shall repay such debtor
the money so received and not so paid over, or ~11 11111<!1, t hereof as
the injunction or appeal may extend to, unless otherwise directed by
law, or the order of the court.
14. No officer receiving money under execution, when the person
to whom it is payable resides in a different county from that in which
tbe officer resides, shall be liable to have any judgment rendered
against him or his sureties for the non-payment thereof, until a demand of payment be made of such officer in his county by such
creditor, or his attorney at law, or some person having a written order from the creditor.
AtTER ONE EXECl'.TIOS HAS ISSt;ED. l'ROVISIO:S FOR OTHERS; HOW EXECUTION
:\IA Y BE Qt:Al'-HED.

15. ( Acts 1872-!3, p. 437.) Subject to the limitations prescribed
by law, a party obtaining an execution may sue out other executions
at bis own costs, thongh the return day of a former execution has
not arrived ; and may sue out other executions at the defendant's
costs, where on a former execution there is a return Iby which it ap-

• Digitized by

Google

780

CHAPTER CXLI.

pears that the writ has not been executed, or that it or any part of
the amount thereof is not levied, or that property levied on has been
discharged by legal process, which does not prevent a new execntion
on the judgment. In no case shall there be more than one satisfaction tor the same money or thing.
1,6. If a tenant by elegit heretofore issued be lawfu11y evicted, or
the land extended be lawfully sold, and any part ofthe judgment be
unpaid, or when property sold under execution, or its value, is recovered from an ohligor in an indemnifying bond given before such
sale, or from a purchaser having a right of action on such bond, the
person having such judgment or execution, or his personal representative, may, by scire facias, or motion after reasonable notice to the
person, or the personal representative of the person, against whom
the judgment or execution was, obtain a new execution against him
in the latter case, for the amount for which the property sold, with
interest from the day of sale, and in the other cases, for so much of
the judgment as remains unpaid. Such seirefaeio» shall be sued
out, or such motion made, within five years after the right to sue out
or make the same.
17. (Acts 1872-3, p. 437.) A motion to quash an execution may,
after reasonable notice to the ad verse party, be heard and decided
by the conrt whose clerk issued the execution, or if in a circuit
court, by the judge thereof in vacation; and such court or judge
may, without such notice, make an order staying proceedings on the
execution until such motions can be heard and determined. A copy
of the order so made must be served upon the officer in whose hands
the execution is.

CHAPTER CXLI.
(Acts 1882, p. ::63.)

MEA:NS OF .f;NFORCING RECOVERIE'J

OE MONEY OTHERWISE THAN

BY LEYVING A WRIT OF FIERI FACIAS.

1. No writ of capias ad satisjaciendum shall hereafter be issued.
2. Every writ of fierifacias shall, in addition to the effect which
it has under chapter one hundred and forty of this code, be a lien,
from the time it i~ delivered to the sheriff or other officer to be executed, upon all the personal estate of which the judgment
debtor is possessed, or to which he is entitled, and upon all which he
may acquire on 01· before the return day thereof, although not levied
on nor capable of being levied on under that chapter, except in the
case of a husband or parent, such estate as may have been Iisted and
set apart as exempt from distress and levy under the provisions of
law, and except that as against an assignee of such estate, for valnable consideration, or a person making a payment to a judgment
debtor, the lien, by virtue of this section, shall be valid only from
the time that he has notice thereof, and as to all property upon
which a lien is hereby given, the said lien shaJl contiuue after the
return day of the execution. But a purchaser of such property, for

Digitized by

Google

781

CHAPTER CXLI.

value and without notice, after the return day of the execution, shall
not be affected -by the lien acquired under chapter one hundred and
torty, or under this chapter, unless the execution be docketed as
hereinafter provided, and if. docketed, it shall be an abiding and
continuing lien as against such purchaser upon the property owned
by the judgment debtor, in the county at the time the execution was
placed in the hands of the sheriff or other officer, or acquired by him
on or before the return day thereof, from the time it was docketed,
and shall have preference over such purchaser. The clerk of the
county court of every county shall keep in his office in a well bound
book an execution docket, in which he shall docket without delay,
any execution in this state, when he shall be required so to do by
any person interested, on such person delivering to him an authenticated abstract of it, for which he shall be entitled to the same fee as
for docketing a judgment. In such abstract and docket there shall
be stated in separate columns.
I. The full nam- of the plaintiff or plaintiffs, and of the defendant
or defendants, and if the defendants are sued as partners, the name of
the partnership.
II. The amount of the execution.
III. The date of the execution.
IV. The day and hour when received by the sheriff or other officer.
Y. When returnable.
VI. The <late of docketing.
This section shall not impair a lien acquired by an execution creditor under chapter one hundred and forty of the code.
3. The lien acquired under the preceding section shall cease whenever the right of the judgment creditor to levy the writ of fierifacias,
under which the said lien arises, or to levy a new execution on his
judgment, ceases or is suspended by a forthcoming bond being
given und forfeited, or by an appeal or otherwise.
HOW J>}:bTOR cm.lPELLED TO Dl!SCOn:R ANI> ::;uRRENDER Hl8 ESTATE.

4. To ascertain the estate on which a writ'of.fierifacias is a lien
and to ascertain any real estate in or out of this state, to which a
debtor named in such flerl faeias is entitled, the judgment creditor
may file interrogatories to the debtor, and a copy of the judgment,
with a commissioner of the court. wherein the judgment is, or of the
circuit court of the county in which the defendant resides or may be
found, who shall issue a summons directed to the sheriff of his county, commanding him to summons the defendant to answer said interrogatories, at a ti me and place within the county, to be therein
specified, not exceeding sixty days from the date of the summon". A
copy of the interrogatories shall accompany the summons, and be
served therewith on the defendant. The debtor served with such
summons and interrogatories shall, within the time prescribed therein file answers upon oath to such interrogatories. Ifhe fail so to do,
or file any answers which are deemed by the commissioner to be

Digitized by

Google

782

CHAPTER CXLI.

evasive, the commissioner, after the service and return day of a notice to, or rule upon, the debtor issued by such commissioner, and
retnrnable to a day and place indicated in the process, to show cause
against it, may issue an attachment against such debtor, returnable
before him on a day and place certain, set out in it, to compel such
debtor to answer before the commissioner the interrogatories aforesaid, or any others which he may deem pertinent.
But the said commissioner shall enter in his proceedings and report to the court, in
which the judgment was rendered, any and all objections taken by
such debtor against answering such interrogatories, or any or either
of them; and if the court shall afterwards sustain any one or more
of such objections, the answers given to such interrogatories, as to
which objections arc sustained, shall be held for naught in that or
any other cause.
5. Any real estate out of this state, to which it may appear by
such answers the debtor is entitled, shall be forthwith conveyed by
him to the officer to whom was delivered the said .fiai facias ; and
any money, bank notes, sucurities, evidences of debt, or other personal estate, which it may appear by such answers are in the possession or under the control of the debtor, shall he delivered by him,
as far as practicable, to the same officer, or to such other, and in
such manner as may be ordered by the court, when the answers are
in court, or by the commissioner when the answers are not in court.
Unless such conveyance and delivery be made a writ shall be issued .
by the court's order, or if the answers be not in court, by the commissioner, directed to the sheriff of any county requiring such sheriff
to take the debtor, and keep him safely until he shall make such
conveyance and delivery.
Upon doing which, he .shal] be discharged· by the court under whose order the writ issued, or, if the answers
were not in court, by the court by which the commissioner was appointed, or, in either case if the court he not sitting, by the commissioner.
·
6. The commissioner shall return the interrogatories and answers
filed with him, and a report of the proceedings under the two preceding sections, to the court in which the judgment is, or if the
judgment be of a justice, to the circuit court of the county.
7. Where a debtor named in a writ of fiai [acias, after being
served with a summons issued by a commissioner, shall fail within
the time prescribed therein, to file answers upon oath to said interrogatories, or shall file answers which are deemed by the commissioner to be evasive, if the judgment creditor shall, by affidavit, show
to the satisfaction of the commissioner
that there is probable cause
for believing that the said debtor is about to quit this state, unless
he be forth with apprehended, a writ shall be issued by the commissioner, directed to the sheriff of any county, requiring such sheriff
to take the debtor and keep him safely until such answers to the
interrogatories as the commissioner deems proper shall he filed, and
such conveyance and deli very as he deems proper shall be made, or

Digitized by

Google

CHAPTER

783

CXLI.

until a circuit court or a circuit judge shall direct the debtors discharge.
AS TO REeovERY,

SALE AND

APPI.IC.-\TION

or neuron's

ESTATE.

8. Any order may be made by such court which it may deem right,
as to the sale and proper application of the estate conveyed and delivered under sections five and six.
9. Reul estate conveyed to an officer under this chapter shall, unless such court direct otherwise, be sold, after giving at least thirty
days notice, by posting the same at the door of the court house of
his county and some. other conspicuous place, near the residence of
the owner, if he resides in the county, or if a newspaper be published iu the county, such notice shall be inserted therein at least
once a week for four successive weeks, and be conveyed to the purchaser by the officer or his deputy. An officer to whom there is a
delivery underthis chapter, when the delivery is of money, bank
notes, or any goods or chattels, shall dispose of the same as if leved on by him, under a writ of fled [acias, and when the delivery
is of evidence of debts (other than such bank notes) may receive
payment of such debts within sixty days after such delivery. Any
evidence of debt or security remaining in his hands at the end of
sixty days shall be returned by him to the clerk's office of such
court. And the court shall make such order to enforce payment of
such debt, or other security as is deemed best. For a failure to
make such return, he may be proceeded against as if an express
order of said court for such return had been disobeyed.
10. On a suggestion by the judgment creditor, that, by reason of
the lien of his writ of fieri facia», there is a liability on any person
other than the judgment debtor, a summons may be sued out of the
office of the c1erk of the circuit court of the county in which such
other person resides, upon an attested copy of said execution being
filed with said clerk, to be preserved by him in his office, or if he
be a non-resident of the state, in the county in which he may be
found, against such person, to answer such suggestion, the return
day of which summons may be the next term of said court.
J l. The person summoned shall be examined on oath in open
court, unless the judgment creditor consent that his sworn answer in
writing may be tiled. If it appear on such examination or answer,
that there is any such liability on him at the time of the service
of the summons, or at any time thereafter, and before the time of
answering, or the return day of the execution, whichever comes first,
the court may order him to pay any debts or deliver any estate for
which there is such liability, or pay the value of such estate, to any
officer whom it may designate; and the levy of an execution on
such order shall be valid, although levied by such officer.
12. If such person after being served with the summons twenty
days, fail to appear, or it be suggested that he has not fully disclosed his liability, the court may either compel him to appear or

Digitized by

Google

784

CHAPTER CXLI.

hear proof of any debt due by him to, or effects in his hands of
the debtor, and make such orders in relation thereto, as if what is so
proved had appeared on his examination or answer, or if it is suggested by the creditor,-that the person so summoned has not fully
disclosed the debts due by him to, or effects in his hands of the execution debtor, the court shall cause a jury to be empaneled without
any formal pleadings to enquire as to such debts or effects and shall
proceed in respect to any such found by the jury in the same manner as if they had been confessed by the person so summoned.
13. Any person summoned under the tenth section may, before the
return day of the summons, deliver and pay to the officer serving it
what he is liable for ; and the officer shall give a receipt for, and
make return ef, what is so paid and delivered. And if it be also
suggested as provided for in the tenth section of this chapter, that
there is a certain sum due from such person to the judgment debtor,
and if such person, after being served with the summons twenty
days, fail to appear and contest the same, or answer the suggestion,
the court may give judgment against him in favor of the judgment
creditor for the amount so suggested.
14. Unless such person appear to be liable for more than is so delivered and paid, there shall be no judgment against him for costs. In
other cases judgment under the eleventh and twelfth sections may
be for such eosts and against such party as the court may deem just.
15. For the recovery of any estate, real or persona), on which a
writ of fieri facias is n lien under this chapter, or on which the judgment on which such writ issues is a lien, or the enforcement of any
liability in respect to any such estate, a suit may be maintained either
at law or in equity, as the case may require, in the name of the officer to whom such writ was delivered, or in the name of any other
officer who may be designated for the purpose by an order of the
court in which the judgment is, or if the judgment be of a justice,
by an order of the circuit court of the county. No officer shall be
bound to bring such suit unless bond with sufficient security be given
him to indemnify him against all expenses and costs which he may
incur or become liable for by reason thereof. But nny person interested may hring such suit at his own costs and in the officer's name.
16. An officer receiving money under this chapter shall, within
thirty days after receiving it, make return thereof to the court or to
the clerk's office of the court in which the judgment is, or if it was
rendered by a justice to the circuit court of the county, and for failing so to do, shall be liable as if he had acted under au order of said
court. After deducting from said money, commissions aJlowed by
Jaw, and his necessary expenses and costs including reasonable fees
to counsel, he shall within thirty days pay the net proceeds to the
parties eut itled thereto, and he and his sureties and their representatives shall be liable therefor in like wanner as if the same had been
made under a writ of .fieri [acias.
17. Although a judgment creditor avail himself of the benefit of

Digitized by

Google

CHAPTER CXLII.

this chapter, he may nevertheless (without impairing his lien under
it) from time to time issue other executions upon his judgment until
the same be satisfied, subject to the limitations prescribed by law.
ACTS REPEALED.

2. All acts and parts of acts coming within the purview of this
act, and inconsistent with its provisions, are hereby repealed.

CHAPTER CXLII.
(Acts 1882, p. 131.)

OF I<~ORTHCOMI.SG BONDS.

I. The sheriff or other officer levying a writ of fieri faeiae or distress warrant, may take from the debtor, a bond with sufficient seenrity, payable to the creditor, in a penalty not more than double the
true value of the property levied upon as ascertained and fixed by
himself, reciting the service of such a writ or warrant, describing the
property, specifying its true value, with the condition that the property be forthcoming at the day and place of sale. Upon the giving
of the bond, as herein provided, the property so levied upon shall he
permitted to remain in the possession of the debtor, at his risk.
2. If the property levied upon, as aforesaid be not sufficient to
pay the plaintifl''s debt, interest and costs, and the fees and commissions of the officer, the execution or warrant, while in force, may he
levied upon other property, if any be found, or a new execution may
be sued ont, upon the return of the former, for the residue of the
debt, interest and costs. But such execution sha11 not he levied
upon the property mentioned in the bond, without the consent of
the persons liable therein.
3. If the property, or any of it, mentioned in the bond be not
delivered as therein provided, the officer, unless payment be made
of the amount due on the execution or warrant, including his fees
and commissions, shall forth with return the said bond to the clerk's
office from which the execution issued, or if it be a <listress warrant,
to the clerk's office of the circuit court of the county in which such
. warrant was issued. The clerk shall endorse on the bond the date
of its return; and against such of the persons who signed the same
as may be alive when it is so returned, it shall have the force of a
judgment. But no execution shall issue thereon under this section.
4. The person signing said forfeited bond shall be liable for the
true value of the property therein mentioned, and not delivered as
aforesaid, with interest on such value from the date of the bond, and
costs incurred in proceedings upon the bond. And the obligee in
8UCh bond, or his assignee or personal representative, may recover
Raid sum and interest, or so much thereof as may be necessary to satisfy his demand against the defendant in the execution or warrant
with costs, by action or motion against the persons signing said
bond. And in case the said obligee fail for any cause, to recover a

Digitized by

Google

786

CHAPTER CXLIII.

judg~eat on said bond, or to collect the amount. specified in any
such Judgment, or any part thereof, he may proceed against the defendant in the original judgment for the amount remainiug unpaid,
in the same manner as if such. bond had not been given.
5. In an action or motion ousuch hond when it is taken under a
distress warrant, the defendants may make defense on the gronnd
that the distress was for rent not due in whole or in part, or was
otherwise illegal.
·
6. If any such bond be at auy time quashed, the obligee, besides
his remedy against the officer, may have such execution on his judgment or issue such distress warrant, as would have been lawful if
such bond had not been taken.
7. No bond for the delivery of property shall be taken on an execution on a 'forthcoming bond, nor on an execution on a judgment
against a sheriff or other officer, or a deputy of such sheriff, for
money received by any such officer or deputy, hy virtue of his office, or against any such officer or his personal representative, in fa'."
vor of a surety of such officer, or against such deputy of any such
officer or his surety or personal representative, in favor of his principal or the personal representative of such principal, for money
paid or a judgment rendered for a default in office; nor on an execution against an overseer of the poor, or his personal representative,
or justice or constahle for money received by him as such; nor on
any other execution on which the clerk is 1·eq uired by law tu endorse
that "no security is to be taken."
8. On every execution on which such bond is prohibited from being given, the endorsement "no security is to be taken," shall be
made by the clerk.
AC'TS REPEALED.

2. All acts and parts of acts coming within the purview of this
act, and inconsistent therewith, are hereby repealed.

CHAPTER CXLlll.
OF OFFENSES AGAISST THE SOVEREIGNTY OF THE ~TATE.

1.· Treason against the state shall consist. in levying war against .
it, or in adhering to its enemies, giving them aid and comfort. No
person shall be convicted of treason, unlesson the testimony of two
witnesses to the same overt net, or on confession in open court.
2. Whoever is guilty of treason against the state shall be punished with death, or, at the discretion of the jury, by confinement in
the penitentiary not less t han three nor moi e than ten years, and by
the confiscation of his real and personal estate.
3. Ifany person have knowledge of any treason against the state,
and shall not, as soon as may be, gi ve information thereof to the
governor or some conservator of the peace; he shall be punished by
fine, not exceeding one thousand dollars, or by confinement. in the
penitentiary not less than one nor more than five years.

Digitized by

Google


