440

,Jt!;TICES

. [CB.

AND CoNBTABLES.

50.

CHAPTER L.
OF THE POWERS,
BU:s,

ASD

DL'TIES ANI> LIABILITIES

01<' Ol<'l<'ENCE8 OF wutcu

,~:! L,

:-!KC.

1
udsnm-n ts.
11~ \
l!.'11 I
lo ,S111,!t.r"sti1111s on j udunn-nt».
12-1. \
I:!!> I
lo f. Stuy or t•x1•cutio11.
1:-0.
1
l·:x1•c•11tio1111n1l ordi-r or suh-.
14(1. I

t<~ ~or 1111' ch·iJ Juri .. dlct iou of jui-ti,·t•s.
11. l
12
to
~o jurli-dktln11 l11 ,·1·rt11in ,·11s1·s.
114.'
19. I How netio11;1 h1·for1• justkt•s 11r1• t>lllll·
~-1 m1•1w•·tl,,\c.
•)I .
lRhzht to 11J>Jl('llr h~· attoruev,

Ir

i'. (

to

es. f

~Infllnt pl11i11tllT or dl'f1·111l1111t.
:· }Suits in pnrt norshlp 11:11111•.

'.~~ (:,,ll,•1< under ('-..;1•c•11tlo11, ,\:c.
1-t-1.

I

Form 1111<1 r,•quisitl'PI of 11u111111011s.

to

ANI> IS TIU: TRIAi,

HA VE JURJ:,IJ>lf'TJON.

Jl'.STICJo:8

IIEC.

~-

OF' JlJ8TIC}:8 ANI> COS8TA-

PROCEEJ)JNHS IN CIVIL SVIT8,

'flU:

::: :- Appolnlnll'nt

:~
I
to rS.·rvi,•1·

or "l"'"i11l c1111stnl1)1·"·

iso.

; tlll

I

11 ..

.

I

I

to :-

of pro,·,•ss und notk,·s.

3". l
40
~- \ .\rr,•"t of dl'frndnnt

~,

1.~~ /. Officn's

I

r,•t 11rn11.

or propnty

Jt·,·it•tl
on clnim .. J by
p.-r,mn oth .. r thnu tilt' jud~mrnt

1111y

lfl:l.) d,•htor.
IM. '.\t,·nninl,! of th•· word "offkn.
151'>
to lmprlsonun-nt or rr11111lul,·nl

Ir

ror .. trlnl.

1~,

to
-S•·rurilv bv plnlntlff fort•osts.
4i. \
· ·
4K PlnintifT m111<t su,• !or his whoh- r-lnlm.
4\J. !<'or11111r Hdi11t1,
fill. Hul••s or prrn.·,·t•dinr.rs.
!'>I. Bonds. uou-s. ,\:c: .• s1wd on. 1111111t IH' fl11•<l I
with ju><ti<'••.

··
tl••htor.

11\:l ~
to
Apµt•11114.
175.

1171\
~ l>ocl.:t't.
to

f)2 ~

to

~·
~

s.. t-.,IT;

plc•n or.

l{J'J.

·~~ lOr Htllll hllll'll_lS of
f Prt.,· uud cl1111n ...
l
0

how

/ l'o11th11111111'1•p,1:

111111

wlu-n

64. \
111111.
M.
to
.\pp1•1u:1111•1•: d,•rnult of p11rt1,•,...

t

I
70. I/
ol•'rotrl~or!]twrt
11s ,., 11 ,. I\W
01171
t h«
1<Uhj1•1•t ofto
'I'rl11l:thl'j11n·.
t h I"
ehu pu-r, 91
... ,. .. Const. 11-Wl:i. w·
urt. vll, i
to ;Arhitrntion.
1~~~'
11: I:!'.!.
Act" Otlwr
nu:~, 00 J
vh,

f

In

ll'ID.

1190
}
lo or contvrupts.

l w it 11 ..

r•·f1•r1•nc""• ,.,.,. 1:,
l'll'f•tion,;.
112. \

1111,.,..:

. ..

mn y l:H•

d1•f1•n1J11t1t"p,1

prop·

,,110
~II·

tll
tnlnwrul d1•t11l111·r of r,•1111•st11h•.
21~. \
~19
I
h,•ror•· just it·•·"'
to ',. l'rn,·,.,·,linl!"
.
· · "" 1,.,11:1tr
2:·l(l.\
of thv
Stat«.
~II ~
.
1 10 l'r1_ic1..-dh11-!" I_M"r<,rt• justie,•s !or viol:1!!:tt.
lion" or ortl111111w,·s.
'!l-1 ('011;.tnh!t·s 11110 off11•1•r" d1•p11tPtl tu

I

,•vi,lt•nc...

I- l
J:;. \
I

:!39.

""n·,· prot't'i.s

~l'Bllilll(

Rnd ord,·rs.
of thl' worrl "ju .. tit-1• ."

(~( th» cir il Jurisdit'lion of Justic,•s .
. \,·t!I 11m-s, ch.
:!".!6. i 1.
Id . ..i,. ~. ~ 1.

iri~ .\~.'.·';~l
,\rt>< 1881.1'11.!1.

'.11.

ltl.

1. The civil jurisdiction of a [ustice of the p<'n<'e shall extend
throughout the county in which the district is for which ht' was
elected.
2. .A justice of one district may issue a summons to the defendant
to nppenr before the justice of another district in the sumo county if
the suit he cognizable by the latter.
B. If n justice he under any disability to act in a case before him.
any other justice in the same county not disquu lifh«] under the provisions of section fourteen of this chapter, may exercise the powers
of n justice in such case,
4. Where any oath may lawfully ht> administered, or afflchwit or
deposition taken within any county, it may he done h)· a [ust iee
therein, unless otherwise expressly provided b)· law.

Digitized by

Google

[CtI. 50.]

-Ul

.JUSTICES ASn CosSTABLES.

5. A justice under such regulations as are prescribed by law, may ~i~i 1fZ·3. chtake within his county the acknowledgment of deeds and other writ- 1881. ch. 8.
ings, and the privy examination of married women respecting the
same.
6. Where the acknowledgment of any deed or other writing, or the .\ct>< IAO."i. P· 36.
privy examination of a married woman respecting the same has been IRHI, di. H.
heretofore taken by any justice out of his township at a time when
it should have been taken therein, or it does not appear by the certificate of the justice that such acknowledgment or privy examination was taken within his township, the same shall nevertheless be
sufficient, unless there be other lawful objection thereto.
7. And the record of any deed or other writing made upon any ru.
such acknowledgment or examination, as is mentioned in the preceding section, is hereby legalized and made as valid and binding in all
respects as if such acknowledgment had been taken and certified by
a justice within his township.
8. The jurisdiction of justices within their several districts and l'on,;t. 18r.!.urt.
counties shall extend to all civil actions for the recovery of money or ~i/~}1 3, ch.
the possession of property, including actions in which damages arcfttt1~·24.,2.
Claimed as compensation for an injury Or Wrong: Proeidcd, 'fhe~~rv~: :86.
amount of money or damages, or the value of the property claimed,
does not exceed three hundred dollars, exclusive of interest and costs; 12 s, E. H. 1w:i
subject, nevertheless, to the exceptions, hereinafter contained.
9. They shall have jurisdiction as hereinafter provided in case of Ac·t~ 1M-t. p. rn.
the unlawful detention of real estate situated within their respective
counties.
l 0. A justice shall have jurisdiction of actions for trespass on real .\,·ts IR'i'J-:J, eh.
estate, or damages to the same, or to rights pertaining thereto, if thef~lh~~\. ,._
damages claimed do not exceed three hundred dollars and the cause :a'\/v;,~rtt~.
of action arose in his county.
But, such actions and cases of the es w. v«. l:D.
unlawful detention of real estate excepted, he shall not have jurisdiction of any suit in which the title to real estate is sought to he recovered, or is drawn in question, except as hereinafter provided, nor
shall any judgment of a justice in such action for trespass or damages or case of unlawful detention, bur the title of any party or any
remedy therefor.
11. When the action is on a penal bond, the amount of damages .\,.,,. JR'i:!-3. ch.
claimed for the breaches alleged, and not the penalty. shall be con- f;~i.\7;. s.
sidered in determining the question of jurisdiction. · ~
:!4 w. \'n. :lOO.
.1.Vo Juri11dirtim1 i11 cert o in ca scs,
12. A justice shall not have cognizance of any action:
.\,•t,- 1~1.,·!1.K
First, For false imprisonment; or.
,\o,',,cmul. For malicious prosecution; or,
Tldrd. For slander, verbal or written; or,
Fourth, For breach of marriage promise; or,
ru». :For seduction.
l :-i. When a balance is found in favor of a party, Pit her hy the ver- i.~'.; 1fl·:l. r-h,
diet of a jury or award of arbitrators, or upon a hearing he fore the f~{~-b~\/ :t

:J.

i~ ~tt::J.~.'9.
:~"'f:~t'.1.;1'1-~:t

Digitized by

Google

442

[Cu. 50.

.JUSTICES AND CONSTABLES.

justice, exceeding the sum for which a justice is authorized to give
judgment, such party may release the excess and take judgment for
the residue.
Aet~ 1867~ 46.
14. If a justice be a party to the snit, or be interested in the resnit thereof, otherwise than as a resident or tax-payer of the district
lll'<I. ch. 8·
or county, or be related to either of the parties, as grandfather,
father, father-in-law, son, son-in-Jaw, brother, brother-in-law,
nephew, uncle or first cousin, guardian or ward, or be a material witness for either party, he shall not take cognizance thereof, unless all
parties to the suit consent thereto in writing. But when a justice is
under such disability, any other justice in the same county may exercise jurisdiction in the case, if there be no other objection.
15. In case of aickuess or disability or nbsence of a justice, another
Id.
justice of the same county may attend in his place, and shall thereupon become vested with his authority for the time being. '!'he attending justice shall in such case make und sign proper entries of the proceedings in the docket. of the absent justice.
Act" 1812-a. ch.
16. The civil jurisdiction of a justice shall not extend to any action
~i\l;. s, unless the cause of action arose in his county, or the defendant, or
112·
IROI. di.
one of the defendants, reside therein, or heing a non-resident of the
State, is found, or has property or effects, within the county .
.,l<'t!' 187".!-:J, ch
17. If the justice have [usisdiction of the action, any lawful pro:!'.!tl. ~ It
111. ,·h. :?4. i5. cess, order or notice therein, unless otherwise specially provided,
1~1.
c 1i. 8·
may he directed to any constable in the county where it is issued, or
to any person specially deputed by the justice, to serve or execute the
same, as provided in section thirty of this chapter, and the officer or
person to whom it is directed may serve or execute the same anywhere within his county, or upon any river or creek adjoining thereto.
It may he directed to the constable by name or by his otflciu.l designation without naming him.
Arts 187".!-:t ch.
18. Subject to the provisions of the sixteenth section of this chap~.!6. ~ ij.
•
11'181. ch."'·
ter, a justice
s h a ll have [uris: 1·iction of actions on hon ds given pursuant to this chapter, and suit may he brought on any such bond, before the [ustioe or court having jurisdiction, by and in the name of
nny person sustaining loss or damage, by reason of the non-performnnce of the condition thereof.
]low <11·ti,,11x luf,11·f· j11.i;tfr,"' u rr to IH· ,·,m11111 nc.«l, rte,
.\(•t"' 1117".!·3, ch.
1 !l. Actions before justices are commenced by summons, or hy the
:?".!ti. s Ill.
1~1. ,•h. 8.
appearance and agreement of the parties without summons; nnd not
otherwise.
Any action so commenced hy agreement, shall he proceeded with to trial, judgment and exocut ion in the same manner and
with like effect ns if the same had been commenced hy summons.
Mt11 IR'i2·3. ch.
:W. In tho former C'USl' tho action is commenced upon the delivery
f;~i\i1i'\. of the summons to ho served, and the constable shall note thereon the
time of receiving the same.
In the latter case the action is corn
mencod at tho tiun- of docketing the case .
•,<•!!< l>li'.NI. t•h.
rs :
:!!6, ~ II.
n 19/,t to "I't":"? f,_1/ ,1tfun11·.11.
1~1•
'"'
1•
"'·
·>J
\
· ·1 action,
·
. a crmnna
. . I
11'11'1. ch. 11:!.
- . .: ny party to u civi
an d t h e c l e fem l ant in

}f~te~td~·

Digitized by

Google

C1t. 50.]

JUSTICES

443

A'.llD CONSTABLES.

prosecution, before a justice, unless he be under the age of twentyone years, may appear and conduct his action or defence in person,
or by agent or attorney.
22. A party authorized to appear by agent or attorney may employ i~t11/f111t8.
any person except a justice or constable to net as such agent or attorney.
The authority to so- net may he verbal or written ; and no
justice or constable shall act as agent or attorney for a party to an
action, proceeding or prosecution before a justice, and if he does so
act, be shall be guilty of a mlsdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof
he fined not less than twenty, nor more than one hundred dollars.
23. When an agent, attorney or guardian for the suit bas been ap- Al'l .. tHXI. ch. R.
pointed, service of any notice in the suit on him shall be equivalent
to service on his principal, and his presence at any proceeding
therein have the same effect us the presence of the party he represents.
Infant pluintijf or d,frnd,rnt.
24. Where a party to the action is under the ngc of twenty-one :~ets 18:f.!·3, ch.
.
...-'6. ¥ '-·
years, a guardian for the suit must be appointed for him by the [us- 1AA~. e,11. ~·
.
. f ant b e p l ainti
· 'tf , t h e appointment
·
e8 w.
w.vu.
sea
tree,
as f o 11 ows : Fi1 rst . If t l ie m
,·a. !!8:!.
must he made before the summons is issued, on the application of
the infant, if he be of the age of fourteen years or upwards; if under that age, on the application of some friend.
The consent in
writing of the guardian to the appointment, and his agreement to be
responsible for costs, if he fail in the action, must be filed with Urn
justice. St:cond. If the infant he defendant, the guardian must be
appointed and consent to act as such before the trial. It is the right
of the infant defendant to nominate his own guardian, if the infant
be fourteen years of age or over, and the proposed guardian be present and consent to serve, otherwise the justice shall. appoint some
suitable person who gives such consent.
The guardian for the defendant shall not be liable for any costs in the action.
Suit.~ in pn rt ucrsliip name,

25. Persons associated as partners in any trade or business, may .\l't" tR1'.!·:1. ch.
soc as such he fore a justice in the firm name hy which such partner- f~~h\il~· 8.
ship is usually known; and it shall not be necessary to allege or~ w. Yu. ·IIO.
prove in such suit who are the persons composing the partnership.
Fon» and n·qui.~it,·x ,if tltt• sunuuon«.
26. The summons in justices· courts shall be in form or in substance as follows:
"------

rr

,

, 011nl,1J, to-icit :

T(J a11y CfJnstaMe iu .'wid f'o1111ly:
You are hereby commanded in the name of the State of West Virginia to summon A--B-to appear before me at my office in
the district of--,
in the said county, on the -day of--,
at
-o'clock, A. )I. (or P. )I., as the case may be), to answer the
complaint of C-D-in a civil action for the recovery of money

Digitized by

AP.I$ 187'.?-.1, ch.
~.§
14,11'>.

11'.lHL ch. ,._

I AA'.!, ch. 14f>.
:!I.JW.Va. 4t14.
so w. \'11. 3'!7.

Google

444

[Cu. 50.

,JUSTICES AND CoNSTABT,ES.

due on contract (or for damages for a wrong, as the case may be) in
which the plaintiff will claim judgment for $--.
Given under my hand this -day of -eighteen -.
E-F-, J. P. ,.
The summons shall he made returnable not less than five nor more
than thirty days from its date; and no trial shall be had or judgment
rendered in less than five days after the summons has been served on
the defendant. If the action be to recover the possession of personal
property, the cause of action may be stated in the summons, as follows: "For the recovery of the possession of one horse ( or one cow,
etc., according to the fact) of the value of $-and $-damages
for the detention thereof ;" but no summons shall be quashed or set
nside for any defect therein if it be sufficient on its face to show what
is intended thereby. In a case where an order of arrest is issued
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, the summons mny he made
returnable and be served at the same time as the order of arrest, and
a trial may be had at any time after execution of the order of arrest
. and service of the summons .
18'i'.!·!l. d1,
27. '\Vhc11 two or more persons are jointly liable to the action, :l
f~i\ltH. separate summons, if the plaintiff require it, may he issued at thl'
commencement of the action, or at any time thereafter, against any
one or more of them, and he directed and served ns provided in section seventeen of this chapter, but the summonses issued at the cornmencemcnt of the action must all he returnable at the same time, and
the summons ngainst every such defendant separately must state who
arc sued with him.
.\t'l'i Jf,tj'~-:t .....
2H. When a party to any note or instrument of writing has signed
;:_•,t ~ 17.
l8XI. c~h. H.
or endorsed the same with the initinls, or some contructlon of his
name, or of his first name, or by a fietitious name, he may he <lt.•signntod in the summons as he is in such signature or endorsement, if
suit he hrought on such note or instrument of writing. When the
name of a defcudcnt iR not known to the plaintitt, the summons may
he issued against him hy a fictitious name. or :my description to
designat« the person intended. nnd shall not he set nsidv or dismissed
for that cause, if served on the proper person: and in nny case in
which n doIenduut shall he proceeded ngninst hy nny other than his
true name, it shall ho the dutv of the justice when his true name is
ascortuiucd, to nmP111l tlu- summons by iuscrtiug t ho sumo therein,
anti thcreaftvr to proceed a~ninst him hy his true name.
.,,.,,. n,;:?-!l. c·l1.
:!!I. .A new summons may, if tho pluint.itf desire it, ho issued ngninst
:."!ti.~ IH.
l~l.c•l1. i'I.
a defr-ndnnt when there has been no service, or return of t hv former
summons, and the same shall ho endorsed, hy tho justice issuing it.
, -socond summons, .. or · -third summons;" as the <'US(' may he .

.,..r~

• lppoi11lm,·11f '!( xpn·ifll ,·111,:,1,/1,/il,·R.
1,1.

:w.

\\'lwn it shall sunsfuctnrily nppc>ar to a [ustic« issuing a summons. uttucluucnt or warrant of urn-st in a civil ad ion, or a wurruut
in u criminal proceeding, that u necessity exists therefor, he may ap-

Digitized by

Google

Cn. 50.J

.JUSTICES

xxn

445

CON8TARLE8.

point a specinl constable to execute the same, either by directing such
process to such special constable by name as follows: "To A-B--,
who is hereby appointed a special constable to execute this
process, · · or hy endorsing such appointment on said process.
:-n. The justice shall note such appointment on his docket, und x .. ,~ 1~1.('ti.1(
1•
11 , wit
· I 1 1 us
· sureties,
·
l ,e 1·mu'·1 e on lus
· o fl'rciu
· 1 l >on<I f or any neg I cct 1~.!. ch 1-tr,.
sun
of duty, default or misconduct of such person in the matter for which
he was deputed. And tho person so appointed shall have all the
powers, perform all the duties, and 1,e subject to the same penalties
in .relntion to such process as if he were a constahle duly elected and
qualified anti had received said process as such constable.
S,,;-ric,: of

pr,1,·r.'l.'I

am] uot ice«.

:t~ • If the ddt>rnbnt he
found ' the process ' order or notice uuless :.!'.!II,~
» .... ,. J~.!-:t,
.
19.

r-h,

person or property is to be taken in custody, or it he otherwise spr· 1~1. rl,. R.
~
:ii W. v«. :.W.
eially provided shall he served by rending the same to him or stating re w. v«. r).',:!.
its contents and informing him of the time and place at which he is
required to appear nnd answer the action, or hy delivering him u copy
thereof; and such copy shall nlways he furnished if demanded. 1f
he he not found, it may he served at his usual pince of abode, hy (le·
livering :\ copy thereof, and giving information of its purport to his
wife, or if she lw not found there, hy delivcriug such ('opy and giving
information of its purport to any person found there who is a member
of his family and above the age of sixteen years, or if no such per·
son he found there, hy posting a copy thereof on the front door of
such abode.
:m. An ncknowledgmont in writing of the service of such process; ~;t§l~.!-3, ch.
order or notice by the defendant, lih~ agent or attorney, or his up- 1~~1, vh. 8·
penrunce to answer the action, is equivalent to personal service.
;i.J.. Unless otherwise specially provided such process or order,
l~.!-3, eh.
and any notice against a corporation, may he served upon the pres·:~:::/:: ~ident, cashier, treasurer or chief otlicer thereof, or if there he no ~Ill w · v«. 36-1,
such officer, or if he he absent, on any ofliccr, director, trustee or
agent of the corporntion ut its principal otllco or place of business,
or in any county in which n director or other olliccr, or nny agent, of
said corporation may reside.
But service at any time may he made
upon any corporation in the manner proscribed for similar proceed·
ings in the circuit court.
:1r,. If the suit he against n foreign corporation doing business by :)<'t'-.1~!.fJ. ch,
. Qt
~ service
.
.
!II, IIeh.
--· H.
nn agent .m tl 11s
~") ·U•=,
may I le macl c l,y < l e lirvermg
a copy o f -.I>*!!.
the process, order, or notice to such agent, or leaving such copy at
the office or place of business of such corporation with any person
found at the time in charge thereof.
:.JG. Service on foreign insurance or <'X}H'CRS companies mny he .vr-t s 1~!-3. ch.
made in the manner specified in the preceding section, or us provided ~i\fi~· 8.
in the fifteenth section of chapter thirty-four of the code.

;_;t·s

r:i\~~- s,
,\r.t,-

37. U

t\

suit uguinst n hunk of circulation he brought in the county

Digitized by

187'.!-:t rh.

Google

446

[CH. 50.

.JUSTICESAND CoNSTABl,ES.

where it has a branch, service on the president or cashier of the
branch is sufficient.
Code Va. p. ~19.
38. Service on any person under either of the last four sections
7ffl .
• \ct~ 187'2.3, ch. shall be in the countv in which he resides·, and the return must show
:!:!d i 26
"'
t88i. ch.' 8
this, and state on whom and when the service was, otherwise the
364'
~.w. Va.
service shall not be valid.
Id.
39. After suit has been commenced by or against a minor, and a
guardian for the suit has been appointed for him, ail notices to be
given by the adverse party in the suit shall be served upon such
guardian, and such service shall be sufficient.
Hut with this exception, when the person upon whom process or an order or notice is to
be served is a minor, a copy thereof shall be delivered to him, if he
be over the age of fourteen years, and be found within the county,
and if he be under that age, it shall be served on his gusrdian or
father; or if neither he found, then upon his mother, or the person
having the care or control of such minor, or with whom he lives; if
neither of them be found, or the minor be over the age of fourteen years, and no guardian for the suit shall have been previously
appointed for him, service on such minor shall be sufficient.
Arr,'.sl ,~l ,i<f,·11d,rnt luf11r,· t rin],
Acts tR'i'..!-3, eh.
40. An order for the arrest of a defendant in a civil action may
"".!6 !i '?7
iHSr. ch.' a
be made by the justice before whom the action is brought, when there
is filed in his office an utfklavit of the plalntitt, or any credible person, made before uny person authorized to administer oaths, showing to the satisfaction of the justice the nature of the pluintiff's
claim, that it is just, the amount thereof, as near as may he, and
the existence of one or more of the fol1owing particulars:
First, That the defendant has removed or is about to remove his
property or a mnteriul part thereof: out of the State, with intent to
defraud his creditors; or,
,S',·c1111d. That he has converted or is about to convert his property
or a material part thereof into money or securities, with the like intent; or,
Third. That he has assigned, disposed of, or removed his property or n material part thereof, or is about to do so with like intent ;
or,
Fourth, That he has property or rights in action which he fraudulently conceals; or,
Fiftl«. That he fraudulently contracted the debt or incurred the
liubility for which the act ion is to he or has been brought: or,
Si.rt/1. That the defuntlunt, being a resident of this ~t.ate, is about
to depart therefrom and reside out of the :,;la1c, without having paid
the pl:tintitf's demand against him.
41. Till' order of arrest shall not be issued until the plaintirt, or
.\!'ls ll'i.:?-3. cb.
:?-.'11. ~ ·!!1.
some responsibl« person for him. shall eXPC'Ute and file with tho [usiw-1t. ,·11. ii.
• l
I
.
l
1 1
l .
.
.
I
tice a hond wit I gooc seC'nrtty. to ,e appron•c >Y t w jusnco, m s11<: 1
penalty as the [ust ic« shall proscribe, hut not loss in any case than
one hundred dollars, cou.litloned that the plaintiff will pay the de-

Digitized by

Google

CH

50.]

JUSTICES

447

AND CONSTABLES.

fendant all damages he may sustain by reason of the arrest should it
thereafter appear that the order of arrest was wrongfully obtained.
The circuit court of the county, or the judge thereof in vacation,
may upon reasonable notice in writing to the plaintiff. his agent or
attorney, discharge any person arrested under such order from custody if it be made to appear by the evidence offered or otherwise that
said order was wrongfully obtained.
42. The order of arrest may accompany the summons or be made .\ct11 um-a.
5 llV.
.
. l gment.
1 t may L, e c 1·irectcc l lik
at any time
a f terwarc l s b e f ore JU(
1 ea :!"28,
1881,ch.
a
summons, and may be executed out of the county in which the action
is pending, if the defendant escape from or be out of such county.
It shall state the names of tho parties, the amount of the plaintiff's
claim as stated in the affidavit, he signed hy the justice issuing it,
and require the person who is to execute it to arrest the defendant
and bring him forthwith before the justice.
-t:-t The officer receiving the said order, shall, as soon as possible Act11 t87'..!-3,
thereafter, arrest the defendant, and unless the plaintitt's claim nnd fi:i,1 I!
the costs are paid, or the defendant is discharged by order of the
plaintiff, take him forthwith before the justice and keep him in custody until discharged according to law.
44. Upon the return of the summons and suid order executed, the Acts t87'.Z-a
trial shall proceed, if such return he made on the return day of the
summons, or on any day, to which the trial has been continued, unless for good cause shown by either party, or at the instance of the
justice himself', the same be continued.
If the trial he continued for
any period, or the defendant be brought before the justice before
the return day of the summons, or nfter that day, and before the
day to which the trial has been continued, as aforesnid, the defendant
shall be discharged from custody upon executing, with one or more
sufficient sureties, a bond to he filed with the justice>, with condition
to the effect that if a judgment he rendered in the action against the
said defendant, he will either satisfy the same or render himself to
answer the process on such judgment.
But. in no case shall the defendant be detained in custody where such continuance is for more
than forty-eight hours, unless it was made at the instance or with
the consent of the defendant himself.
·

cr·

f:i\:\.

ch.

ch.

ch.

Src11rif.1J 1,.1/ pl,1i11ti.ff f11r cost s,
45. If a person who intends to hring an action before a justice is
not a resident of the State, the justice may require security for the
costs before issuing the summons.
And if the summons be issued
without such security having been given, the defendant may demand
the same, and the action shall not proceed till it he given.
And
when a plaintiff after suit is begun removes from the State, the justice or defendant may also require security, as well for the costs
already accrued as for those that may accrue thereafter.
1 f the
plaintiff, after being notified of this requirement,
fail to comply
therewith within the time prescribed by the justice, or to show cnuse

Digitized by

.\•it" t8i'.Z-a, ch

f:i.sc~·8.

Google

448

[Cu. 50.

,JUSTICES ASn roNSTABT.F.S.

why he should not do so, the justice shall dismiss the suit and give
.\l'.f,.. 187'.?-3, ch.
""!6 i '!:!

i~i.ci1..8.

Id.

judgment ngainst him for costs.
·H>. Security for costs may he given either hy depositing with the
justice such sum as the latter shall deem surflcient, or by a bond
with good security, to he approved by the just.ice, in such penalty
as the justice shall prescribe, with condition to pay to the justice the
costs incurred at the plnintifls instunce, when demanded, and that
if judgment he given ngninst him in the net ion, he will pay the de.
fendnnt's costs when demanded.
-17. When such bond has been giveni the justice, on notice or
summons served on the persons, or any of thorn who signed tho snm«,
may render [udgmontthereon ngniust th« person or persons so served,
for tile costs reuiuining unpaid in the action for which the plnintitf is
liable, together with the costs of the proceeding against such person
or persons and such judgment may be in his own name, or in that of
the defendant, und may tw enforced in the same manner as other
judgments.

ri.

ltl.

1,foi11t1".IJ 11111st 1,111· J~,,. /,ix w/,,,fr cl a in«.
-18. When the plnintitf has several dr-tuunds ngaim;t the sunu- defeudunt founded on contract, express or implied, he must hring his
action for the whole amount due and pnyahle at the time such notion
is brought, whether the demands he such ns might have been heretofore joined in the same action or not. If he bring his action for part
only, the judgment in the suit, whether for or ngainst him, shall hnr
him from recovering the renmindor.
But if he huve judgment, or
an action pending for any doruand, be may sue for another demand
afterward acquired or becoming due and puyablo, without [oining
hoth demands in the same suit, and the judgment in one suit shall
not bar the other.
And any demand against two or more pl•rsons
shall not he joined in the same uet iou with om.. a~ainst part of said
persons only; nor a demand :,gainst a pNson in his own right with
one against him in a rvprvscntutive capm-ity.
Fi,r111 of act io«,

ltl.

-111. The forms of action now ex ist injz shall not apply to justiel·s·

courts, and there shall lu-rcuftor he hut one form of uetion in said
courts, which shall he denomiuated a civil action.

Ru!,.~ 11fpr1,r11·di119.
x. Y. '''""' .. r

aO. The following rules of procl'l'<lill~

~~:.":~;!:~r·;~Jtt courts:

1'11. :!".!ll. ~ :ti,

.,,.,,.. l>0-11 ... h. !l
\I W.\·11. :..'\II.
:..'11 \\. \' u. -11~1.
~ W. v«, f,KJ.

shall h<! ohs<·n·l·cl in j11stiet·s·

I. The plending» in these courts arPf'irxt-Thc complaint by the plaintiff.
S,coud-'fhc unswor hy the defendant.
11. The pleadinus muy he oral or in wrlting : if oral, till' suhstnncv
of theru shall ht• entered hy t ho [ust ie« in his rloeket.: if in writing
tlll'y shall he flled hy him and a rt>f<·rc•n<·•~ to them IK' m~,,lt• in t lndocket. In either ease if the pnrtie» npp<·ar nml the defendent make

Digitized by

Google

CR. 50.]

.Iusrrces

449

AND CoNSTAill,ES.

defence they shall he made up on the return day of the summons,
unless good cause he shown to the contrary.
III. The complaint shall state in n plain and direct manner the 1 11i11011 er,
:ll'omil. Ht.
facts constituting- the cause of action, and if more thnu one cause of:!l'nms.
11n.
.,., Burh :!4-1
action be stated therein, each shall be separately stated and nmn- · ·
he red.
IV. The answer of the defendant may contain:!:! Bnrh. 150.
Pirst-A denial of the complaint or some part thereof;
8n~rJ1ul-Astatement of the facts constituting a defence or counter
claim.
V. Such pleadings arc not required to he in any particular form, :1 Harh. fl(l!l. .
.
4 Barb. 361,M3.
1 mt must 1 re sue l1 as to ennh l e a person of common uncl erstanc 1 mg to
know what is intended.
VI. Either party.J mnv.J except to a pleading~ of his ndversurv.J when 4Ii Barh.
361.
ltnrb. HI.
it is not. sufficiently explicit to be understood, or it contains no cu use:!.! n 1rh. :!-H.
of action or defence.
VI I. If the justice deem the exception well founded he shall or- l~ :f~~t:
der the pleading to he amended: and if the pnrty refuse to amend,
the defective pleading shall be disregarded.
VIII. In an action or defence founded upon an account, note, or
other writing for the payment of money, it shall be sufficient for the
party to deliver the account, note, or other writing to the justice and
to state that there is due to him thereon from the adverse party a
specific sum, which he claims to recover or set otf in the action.
IX. A variance between the proof on the trial and the allegations
of a pleading shall be disregarded as immaterial, unless the justice
shall be satisfied that the adverse party has been misled to his prejudice thereby.
X. The pleadings may be amended at any time before the trial, or I Ikni~ 139.
.
.
. .
.
.
~a How. 3:..">.
during the trial, when by such amendment substantiul Justice will be is ,y .. 1111. ooi.
l
.
h
. l
• · be I ll1lton 556.
promoted.
Ir the amenc 1 meut be mace
l c1 urmg
t e trin nun1 it
shown to the satisfaction of the justice by the oath of the opposite
party, or bis agent or attorney that a continuance of the cause is necessary in consequence of such amendment, a continuance shall be
granted, and the justice may, in his discretion, require the party
making the amendment to pay the costs of such continuance.
XI. The justice may, at any time before the trial, require either~ W.V,l. ·lf1.t.
party at the request of the other, at that or some other specified
time, if the action or defence be founded upon an account, to file n
complete statement of the items thereof, with his complaint or answer, and in case of his default, may preclude him from giving evidence at the trial of any item not so filed.
· /
IN. Y. C111l1• of
.. 1 118U'CI' O,f ftl r,
Procedure, § M.
.
.
b
l
.
h
l
.
l'-1-1• Acts 187'.!-3,
XI If th e d e f en d ant Ill any action
roug it m sue court, c atlllSd1. :!'..!6, ~ 3-t.)
.
. h e mny -tSaml.H."37,
ti inttl ie titl
1 e to rea } proper t y wiill come ..m question
t } ierem,
6 11u1-13i.

m:

4-

•

.

either with or without other mntter of defence, set forth in his answer the facts showing that such title will come in question on the

Digitized by

i ~!: ~: : ~lt:
b'~~r.1{:J\oo.

Google

450

[CH. 50.

,JUSTICES AND CONSTABLES.

trial thereof. Such answer shall be in writing and shall be vcrifled
by the affidavit of the defendant, or his agent or attorney.
Upon the
· filing of such answer, if the justice he of opinion that the facts
therein stated show that the title to real property will so come in
question, be shall dismiss the action at the costs of the plaintiff, unless the plaintiff, or his agent or attorney, shall file an affidavit denying the truth of such facts, in which case the action shall not he dismissed.
If, however, it shall appear on the trial of the cause
that the title to real property is properly in question between the
parties, and that the relation of landlord and tenant does not exist
between them, the justice shall dismiss the action at the cost of the
plaintiff.
But if no such unswer of title he filed by the defendant,
the justice shall have jurisdiction of the cause, and the defendant
shall not be permitted. in his defence, to dispute the title of the
plaintiff to the premises in question.
Bonds, notes. ctr ... sues]
.\d,.-11!7:?·3, ell.
~·,\~·

8.
464·

eo w. vu.

011

must [u: filnl ic ith the ju."tfr,, .

51. 1f the action of the pluintiff, or the credit or set-off of the <lefondant, be founded on any bond, promissory note. hill of exchange,
or other instrument of writing, it shall he file<l with the justice, unless
good cause be shown why it cannot he so filed; and when judgment
is rendered, the justice shall endorse upon such instrument the title
of the suit and the amount allowed in the judgment to the plaintiff or
defendant on account of the same.
If the instrument he payable in
installments, he shal] also specify in the endorsement for which of
the installments such allowance was made, and no suit or suits
shall thereafter he instituted between the same parties! or those
claiming under them, for the matter so adjudged and decided.
The
justice shall retain the instrument and file it with the papers relating
to the suit, unless an appeal he taken from the judgment, in which
case, the same shall be transmitted to the clerk of the court to which
the suit is transferred l1y the appeal: or unless he grant leave to the
person entitled thereto to withdraw such instrument, on filing a eopy,
for the purpose of recovering another instnlhncnt, or bringing snit
thereon against a different party.

S,·t-uJJ".
52. lf the plnintirt's demand in the action he founded on judgment
or contract, express or implied, the defendant in the following cases
may set off demands which he has against the plaintiff :
First, The demand to he set off must he founded on judgment or
contract, (•xpress or implied.
Srmnd. lf it he founded on u hond or other contract, sealed or
without seal, having a penalty, the sum equitably due hy virtue of its
condition, and not the penalty, shall lu- set otf.
Third. It must haw lwlongt•cl to the dcfr-ndunt at the time the
plnintitf's suit was commenced.
F111trtlt. Tf the pluiutitf's demand he against several defendants,

Digitized by

Google

Ce. ;;o .]

451

,JGSTICEB AND CONSTABLES.

the set-off' must have helonged to all the said defendants jointly at
the time the suit was commenced.
F,jM. If there be several plaintifts suing jointly, the set-off must
be a joint demand against them all.
Si:r:t/1. If the plaintiff be merely a trustee for another, or tf the
suit be in "the name of a plaintiff who has no real interest in the claim
sought to be thereby enforced, the set-off must be a claim against
those whom the plaintiff represents, and for whose benefit the suit
was brought.
.A claim against a nominal plaintiff shall not in such
a case be allowed as a set-oft,
S,'.l'l'11tl1. In suits brought by executors or administrators for any
cause of action existing ut the time of the death of the person they
represent, whether then due and payable or not, the set-off must be
a claim against the deceased or against his estate in the hands of the
said representatives.
But if such suits be founded on any transaction or contract subsequent to the death of the testator or intestate,
claims against the deceased which existed in his lifetime shall not
be set otr without the assent of his executors or administrators.
Eiylitl,. The claim to he set oft' must he due and payable at the
time of trial.
But the plaintiff in such cases may file and prove any
counter set-otf or counter claim he may hold against any set-off or
counter claim filed by the defendant, and may make such other defences thereto as he might have made had an original action been
brought upon such set-off or· counter claim; and upon a trial, the
true state of the claims of the parties shall be ascertained and judgment rendered accordingly.
5a. If the claim of the defendant proved on the trial be equal to .\c•t ... isre-a ch.
that of the plaintiff, judgment shall be entered for the defendant, f:1\f' 8.
with costs.
If it be less, the plnintitr shall have judgment for the
residue only, with costs.
If it be more, and the balance found due
to the defendant from the plaintiff do not exceed three hundred dollars, exclusive of interest and costs, or the defendant release the
excess, judgment shall be rendered for the proper amount, with costs,
in favor of the defendant, and execution be awarded thereon, as if
the judgment had been obtained in an action brought by the defendant.
54. If the balance found due the defendant, exceed the amount to .\cts isre-a eh.
which the jurisdiction of the justice is limited, and the defendant do fMih\~· ti.
not release the excess, judgment shall be rendered for the defendant
for costs; and the defendant may thereafter recover the balance due
him in any court having jurisdiction.
55. If the defendant, at the time the plaintiff's action is com- Acti. ltl'i'l-3,ch.
. or set-o ff , or counter c l mm
. to a II cge .m d e- 2'l6.
f :l9.
mencec,l h as any erec1 it,
11t11. ch. s,
fonce or reduction of the plaintiff's demand, and he personally served
with process in the suit, or appear and answer the action, he shall
produce the same, with his evidence in support thereof, in the cause,
or be forever precluded from maintaining any action for the recovery thereof.
And if the plaintiff, in the cases provided for in the

Digitized by

Google

.IUSTWER .vxn (foN81'ABLE8.

452

[Cn. 50.

fifty-second section, has any credit, set-off or counter claim to allege
in defence or reduction of the defendant's set-off or counter claim,
und fail to produce and cluirn the same, he shall, in like manner be
forever precluded from maintaining an action for the recovery
thereof .
. \c-ts tl:r.'.!-:J, eh.
Mi. The preceding section shall not, however, apply to the followf:i.!i J~.· 8_ ing cases:
Fi,·.~1. When the set-off or counter claim shall exceed the plaintiff's
demand more than three hundred dollars, exclusive of interest; in
which case the person to whom it is owing mny, at his option, sue
fur the whole amount in any court having jurisdiction, or set off so
much as will cover the plnint.ifts demand, and sue for the excess.
S,·c,,11d. \\' hen the set-otf consists of a judgment rendered he fore
the corumcnccruent of the snit in which the same might he set oft'.
Tldn], Claims in snit before any other court or justice at the time
of the commencement of the action,
57. In cases in which a defendant has filed n set-otf or counter.\c•.f,;l~~-3. d1.
f~t ~.t'. I'!. claim, he may proceed to trial though the plaintiff fail to appear or
dismiss his uctiou.
C1111

• ,,.,,.

tS'i:!-:-1. ch.

f;~i.!i,f x.
3:3

w, \'a.

141.

:~·:'".1~i'2-:1, ch.
--'h. li ·1,1.
1~~1. ,·h. x.

.\,•ts 11'7:!-:l. ch.
:!"-'I>., H.
11'!1'!1, d1. 8.

.\c•t, l>Ci:!-3. d1.
:!".!t\. ~ 45
11'!1'!1. ch.~-

.\,·t~ l)r,'.!·:l. r-h.
'.!".!t\. ~ Ill.
1~1.,·h. IC.

t j II Utl ucc« .

f>H. On the day the summons is returnable the defendant upon
making oath, that he has just defence to the suit, or is justly ent itied
to a credit or set-otf not admitted by the plain ti tr, mny demand of
right a continuance of the cause for. seven duys ; und such continuance shall he at the costs of the plaintiff or defendnnt according to
the result oJ the action.
5tl. On the return day of the summons, if the defendant he not ln
custody, the jnstlce may without the consent of either party, continue
the cause for not over seven dnys ; hut he shall not exercise this priv.
ilege at any other time, unless in ease of sickness or necessity. ) f
the defendunt he in custody, he shall he discharged therefrom if the
cause he continued for more than forty-eight hours without his consent.
t.W. When a ,lcf<•ntl:mt is not in custody, the justice on the return
day or any subsequent time appointed for the hearing; may continue
the cause on upplicntion of either party. without the consent of the
other, on the applicant showing, hy his oat h, or otherwise, that he
cannot safely proceed to trial for want of some material paper, evidence or witness, and that ho has used reasonuhle diligence to procure the same und will prohahly he nhle to <lo so, if time he granted.
The continuance shall, in such case. he for n reasonable time, to ennhle the applicant to obtain the p:qwr, evidence, or witness referred to.
ti1. But, unless both purtio» con sent, no continuance shall he
grantl•d to n time \)('yornl throe months after the return of the summons served.
6t. Ewry contlnuunr-c on tho upplication of a party shall he at his
cost , except as provided in thv fifty-t•ight S('dion. or when one pnrty
has su hpn-naed his ud wrsary to tosti fy us a witness and he fails to al.

Digitized by

Google

CH. 50.]

,JUSTICE~

453

ASO C0NSTABLES.

teud or refuses to testify.
If the cause is continued on account of
such failure or refusal, tho party subprennerl shnll pay the costs occasioned thereby unless good cause he shown for such failure or refusal.
63. If the cause he not continued, the trial shall take pluee on the Act.-i 1881,ch.s.
return day of the summons, if the same has been served, or at the
time set for trial when the Inst previous continuance was made.
1• JI b
1
,~
•
·
l on accoun t o f tl ie n1 isence o f 2'26,
Act~ § IR7:!-3,
ch.
(,,""!.
.:H>
action
sun
e < Iiiscontinuoc
47.
the justice.
lf he fail to attend on the return day of the summons, 1881• ch. K
or nt the time to which the action stands continued, any other [ustice of the same county may attend and try the case, or continue it
for not exceeding thirty days; and if he do so shall make and sign
an entry thereof on the docket of the nbsent justice. If not tried or
continued by another justice as aforesaid, it shall stand adjourned
for one week; and so on, from week to week until disposed of.
App1·,11·,wn·-d,ftt1tlt of parties.
ti5. The parties are entitled to one hour in which to appear, after hi.
the time for appearance mentioned in the summons or order. of contiunnncc.
Neither shall he hound to wait for the other longer than
that time ; and at the end of the hour, or sooner, if both parties he
in attendance, the justice shall proceed in the cause, unless at the
time engaged in the trial of unother action.
titi. Saving the right of a defendant, who has filed a set-off or.~\<:'". tKi:J..a, eh.
411·
.
t o proceer I to tria
. I , t liougut , the
t,
. . r fat· 1 t o uppour, ~~u.
coun t er c I aim,
p I a111t1I
1t1~1. Iich, K
or dismiss his action, judgment may be rendered against the plaintitr dismissing his action, with cost, but without prejudice to a new
action for the same cause, in the following cases:
First, lf he fail to appear and prosecute his action within one
hour after the time for appearance meutione.l in the summons, or
lust order of continuance.
S,·c,md. If he fail to make or file his complaint nt or before the
time the summons is returnable.
Third. If he fuil or refuse to testify when properly required to
<lo so.
Ptmrtl,. If he fail to give security for cost when properly required
to do so.
Pi/tit. If the summons he defective or erroneous and cannot properly be amended.
Si.rt!,. If the plaintiff himself dismiss his action.
But in the first,
second and third class of cases, tile plaintiff may show cause, if he
can, why his action ought not to be dismissed.
The action shall
also he dismissed at plnintitf's cost, whenever it appears that it has
been brought in the wrong county, or that for any other reason the
justice has not jurisdiction thereof.
ti7. The judgment against the plnintitf for failure to appear, may A~t11 I8'i:!·3. ch.
he set aside by the justice for good cause shown, within fourteen
8.
days after it is rendered, on such conditions as he may see fit to im-

r:i~ ~:

Digitized by

Google

454

Jm::iTICKS AND Cos8TABLE8.

[Cu. 50.

pose; but the defendant must have reasonable notice of the motion
to set aside such judgment, and an opportunity to Le heard in oppo.\c~t,- l>fi'.Z·3. eh.

!!"-"\. Sal.
18.'il. ch. 8.

.\ds 187'.!·3. ch.
:!'-'ti,~ se.
l~l, ch. 8.

Ads 1Ri'.Z·3, ch.

Z.!t,. § sa

1881, ch. 8.

sition thereto.
fiR. When a defendant does not appear the plaintiff cannot recover
without proving his case. The justice, if the process has been served
on the defendant, shall in such case, proceed to hear the allegations
and evidence of plaintiff, and render judgment as the right shall
appear.
(W. When the summo.is is issued a~J.inst two or more defendants,
hut not served on all of them, and those not served do not appear to
answer to the action, the plaintiff may proceed to judgment as to the
defendants on whom the summons was served, or who appears as
aforesaid, and either dismiss his action as to the others, or have a
second or third summons against them, and from time to time, as
the process is served, proceed to judgment against them.
70. When the defendant does not appear, and judgment is rendered ngainst him in his absence, the justice may set aside the judgment within fourteen days thereafter, on motion of defendant and
payment of costs.
But of such motion, reasonable notice must he
given to the plaintiff, his agent, or attorney; and the judgment shall
not be set aslde, unless the defendant makes oath that he has a lawful defence to the action, or is entitled to some credit, set-off, or
counter-claim, which has not UC('Il allowed him, and shows by his own
oath, or otherwise, reasonable cause why he did not appear. ,vhen
tho judgment is so set aside, the justice shall set a day for the trial
of which the plaintiff, his agent, or attorney, if not present, must
have at least three days' notice.
If judgment he entered a second
time against the defendant, it shall not again be set aside.
Trial-t/,,.

Jilt.'/·

71. At the time appointed for the hearing, if a jury he not demnnded hy either party, the justice shall hear the proofs and give
judgment ns the law and evidence shall require.
ch.
72. Either party to a civil action before a justice, when the value
':k~ti;._8~1!>. in controversy or the damages claimed, exceed twenty dollars, or the
:•, w, Vn.a.;.:.'\ltS. possession of real estate is in controversy, shull he entitled, under
as
·
a1 w. v». •&:1.
the regulations herein prescribed, to a trial by six jurors, if demanded .
. \d:- 1~1. «'11. ~73. The demand must he made before the justice has commenced
an investigation of the merits of the cnse, by the examination of any
witness, or the hearing of other evidence.
7-1. The party demanding the jury must deposit with the justice
1,1.
~~,\:.'tl.9:::,1. six dollars to pay the fees of such [nry ; l'rorid,d, That the party
demanding such jury may file his uflldavit that he is unable pecuniarily to muke such deposit, and the justice, if satisfied of the truth
of the affidavit, shall issue the n·11irr jiu·i,ts for the jury, without
such deposit being made.
,\ct ... 1881, di.~75. When a jury is to he culled, the trial shall be postponed until
Acts IR'i'.!·3, ch.
:!·.!6, ~ lK
1&:11. ch, 8.

tt~"J.!ti2·3.

Digitized by

Google

Cn. 50. J

,J CSTICES

455

AND CosSTABL.ES.

the time fixed for the return of the jury, which, if neither party show
good cause for a later <lay, shall be on the same day, or within the
next two days.
76. All male persons of sound judgment, who are twenty-one, nnd I<l.
not over sixty years of age, and who are otherwise qualified to serve,
shall be liable to serve as jurors, except as provided in the following
section.
77. The following persons shall he exempt from serving as jurors: f'<MII' vu. p, 6AA.
· I ature ant 1 t h err
' .\l•l,i l!t!I. ch. 8'
Th e governor; mem b ers o f -.,.not h. b ranc h es o f t l ie 1 egis
respective officers <luring the session, and for ten days before and
after the same; the secretary of state, treasurer, auditor, attorneygeneral, state superintendent of free schools; and the clerks in
their respective offices; judges and officers of the several courts of
this State or the United States; sheriffs, deputy sheriffs; marshals
and deputy marshals; sergeants of towns; superintendents of the
penitentiary, hospital for the insane, institution for the deaf, dumb
and blind, and of public hospitals, and their servants and ussistants ;
ministers of the gospel having charge of any congregation or circuit;
school teachers having charge of a school; millers and ferrymen
whose attendance is necessary at any grist in ill or ferry; keepers of
toll-gate's on any public road; members of volunteer companies, as
provided in the eighteenth section of chapter twenty-three; the
offlcers (not including directors) of the several banks and branches,
and of national banking associntions ; practicing attorneys and physicians; telegraph operators employed at the time in any otlice in this
State, and postmasters and their clerks, and persons engaged in the
care and transportation of the mail, or other service of the United
States.
But a person exempt shall not, for that cause, be deemed
incompetent, if he do not object to serve as a juror.
78. The jurors must be persons who stand impartial between the IJ.
plaintiff and the defendant and are not related to either party or interested in the action.
79. The justice, if either party to the action require it, or the party ('od,· v», J>.691.
himself, may examine on oath any person who is culled as a juror in :\ch; 1881,ch. 8·
such action, to know whether he is related to either party, or has nny
interest in the case other than such as he may have in common with
other residents and tax-payers of the district, county, town or State,
or has formed an opinion, or is sensible of any bins or prejudice in
in the case; and the party objecting to the juror mny introduce any
other competent evidence in support of the objection.
If it appear
to the justice that the juror does not stand indifferent in the case, another shall be placed in his stead for the trial thereof.
80. No exception to n juror on account of nge or legal disahility Codr vs. r.t1o1.
shall be allowed after he is sworn, unless by leave of tho justice; hut
189.1~~:
if the justice require it, a juror may be set aside ut nny time and an- ~?ratt.634.!Htl.
other placed in his stead.
81. ~o irregularity in nny writ of 1·,,11 ,,.,, ffl1·io.'il, or the servico f'ml•· v». p. 691.
thereof, or in selecting, or empanneling the jurors, shall be sufllcient Act,. 1881• ch. 8·

,1~\;~~:

Digitized by

Google

456

l<l.

hi.

l<l.

Id.

1,1.
:11

w. v». :r.o.

,JUSTWE8 AND Co~STARLE8.

to set aside a verdict, unless it appear thnt tho party making the objection, w~s injured thereby, or such objection was made before the
jury was sworn.
82. When a party demanding a jury shall have made the deposit
required by the seventy-fourth section of this chapter, or such deposit has been dispensed with, 11s provided in said section, the justice
shall issue a r, ui re ffl(';,,.~, directed to any constable of the district,
or in the county, commanding him to summon six qualified jurors to
appoar at the time and place stated therein, to serve us a jury in
the trial of the action between the pluintitf a n<l defendant.
And it
shall he the duty of the constable, or person who nrny he deputed to
serve the same, to execute the said process, and to return the sume,
with the names of the jurors summoned in obedience thereto, on the
return day named therein.
8:-1. Any person so summoned who fails to appear, or when in attendance refuses to serve on the jury, without suftlcicnt cause, mny,
after notice and an opportunity to be heard, be fined by the justice
not exceeding five dollars, and ndjudge•d to pay the cost of the proceeding for such failure or refusal. The justice shall make an entry
thereof on his docket, which shall have the> cttect of a judgment in
favor of the Stute for the fine and cost, and may he• enforced like
ot her judgments of justices.
H-l. If a sufficient. number of competent jurors bo not obtained as
uforesnid, the justice, in order to supply the deficiency, may direct
the constable, or person deputed, to call and summon hy-stnudcrs, or
other persons, to serve as jurors.
85. The plaintiff and defendant shall each he entitled to two pnemptory challenges in making up the jury nurl the persons so ehullonged shall not be permitted to serve thereon.
Hll. The jury shall he.• sworn hy the justice well and truly to try tlumatter in ditlerenee between the pluintitf and dof'endunt , und n tnuverdict givl' nccordiug

. \,·r"

li«t.,·lt.R.

l<l

lrl.

1,1.
l~I.

,•h.ll3.

[Cn. 50.

to the' ovidcucv .

87. After the jury are sworn, they shall sit togr-ther and hour t lunllogations and proofs, of the purties, which shall Ix- dr-llvvrod puhlicly in their prPR<'HCl'i and when they have heard the sumo. th,·y
shall Ix- kopt togr-ther in some convenient plnct-, uu.k-r ehargc• of a
constuhle or p<'l'son deputed by tho justice, until tlH'y haw nµrc>t·cl
on their verdict or discharged hy tho justice.
HH. Wh<'n they haw agn•c>cl on their verdict, they shall ,lc·Jiwr it
publicly to t ho justice, si~rwd l,y 011<• of their number ns Ion-man :
and the [ustico shall enter tho sumo in full in his docket.
H!I. Wh<'newr the justice is satisfied tlu- jury cannot a~rc•t•, II(' mu~·
dlsr-hargo thorn and issue a new rru ir»: j~11·i,,,-. returnuhh- within
forty-eight hours, unless tho purties ngrt·P 011 a lonjn-r time, or ngr,•p
to disponso with a jury in future. or that t lu- [nst iev may himself
render jtulgnwnt on t lw Pvidt>tH·c• alrP:uly lu-urd lwfon· him, which.
in such cus«, IH' m:ty proc·c•1·1l to clo.
!10. On the verdict he•ing delivered to the justice. if the tlt'})(lSil

Digitized by

Google

CH. 50.]

,JUSTICES

AND CoNSTAULEK.

mentioned in the seventy-fourth section of this chapter has been
made, each juror shall he entitled to receive from him one dollar out
of the money so deposited in his hands by the party who demanded
the jury. When the jury arc unable to agree, or the trial by jury is
dispensed with, the same compensation shall be paid them out ofthe
said money.
If the final judgment in the action be in favor of the
party who demanded the jury, the amount so paid shall be included
in the cost awarded against the adverse party. And when such costs
are collected in cases where no deposit was made, the fees of the jury
shall be paid therefrom, And when such jury shall he occupied in
the trial of said case more than one day, there shall he taxed as a
part of the costs of such snit, for each additional day so occupied for
each juror, fifty cents, to be recovered off of the party against whom
judgment is rendered, and when such costs are collected the [ustice
shall pay the fees of the jurors therefrom.
!ll. If the justice hclic\'e the verdict to have been procured hy Arti<t~J.rh. H.
fraud or undue means, or to he the result of partiality or prejudice,
or to be manifestly contrary to law or the evidence, he muy, within
twenty-four hon rs after the return of such verdict (Sundays excepted)
r.n the motion of the party injured, set aside, and award u new trial
in the cnse, upon the payment of the costs of the former trial, or
with costs to abide the event of the action, us he may deem proper.
In such case he shnll appoint n time for a new trial, and issue a reu i r«
facias for another jury, if demanded hy either party, in uccordnrn-e
with section seventy-four of this chapter. But no more than one
new trial shall be granted hy a justice in any case.
Arliitration,
92. At anv
time
before
judgment
the plaintitf and defendant mnvJ~~~
.\1·1s JRi'J-a. 1'11.
J
~
by mutual agreement, have the cause submitted to the arbitrament i~-1. ,·,1a: s.
of three disinterested men, chosen by t hernselves ; and if the arhitrutors he present, they shall hear and determine the matter in difference between the parties, hcing first sworn hy the justice, impnr.
tially to decide the same according to the luw und the evidence. But
if they he not present, a time and place shall he appointed hy the
justice for the trial, unless the parties agree on tho same, and the justice shnll, if necessary, issue a summons to the nrbitrutors to attend.
The fees of the nrbitrntors shall he the same as those of jurors.
H:{. When the nrbitrutors attend nt the time and place so appointed, A<'t" J87"J-:t ('.11.
being first sworn ns aforesaid, they shall hear and determine till' ·~~·1.\~~: K
cause, and make their award in writing (which shall he valid when
signed hy uny two of them) and return tho same to the justice who
- shall enter n note thereof on bis docket, and render judgment thereon,
and issue execution as in other cases, hut contlnuances mny he granted
as in other cases.
!1-t. Every judgment on such award shall conclude the rights of.,,.,~ 18;:!-:t ,.1 r.
the parties, unless within fourteen duys from the rendition of such :f.~i \:f;: 8.
judgment, it he made to nppour to the sntisfuction of the justice,
that the award was obtained by mistake, fraud, corruption, or other

Digitized by

Google

458

[CH. 50.

,JUSTICES AND CONST ABLES.

undue means.
In such case, the award and judgment may be set
aside by the justice, and the cause be tried as if the arbitration had
not been agreed upon.
~~-a. ch. 95. No appeal shall be granted or allowed from the judgment of a
1881. ch. 8·
justice rendered on an award.
Acts rsrs-a ch.
96. If after the arbitration has been agreed upon as aforesaid, the
~i.§<~.' R.
award he not returned to the justice in fourteen clays, the justice, on
the application of either party, the other having reasonable notice,
may, in his discretion, set nside tile agreement, and thereafter proceed to trial and judgment as in other cases.

£~~i

}ritllCRR('!~-Cl'it/t'I/Ce.

~7. .A justice may issue subprena for witnesses residing or found.
A<'t~ 1~2-3, ch
:!.'ff. s !',{I,
in
the county, and compel their attendance, in nny suit pending
1881. ch. R.
before him, or in any matter respecting which he may lawfully take
depositions.
A<-ts 1872-3, ch.
mt A snbpcena mavJ he served by
an officer, a partyJ to the suit or
~'ti.§ 60.
•
1881. ch. 8.
any other person.
When not served by an officer, the affidavit of
the person who served it will be evidence of service.
!lH. Whenever either party in an action pending before a justice.
Act" 1Ri''.h'3. ch
:!'..!t\. ¥ Iii.
makes oath that the testimony of a witness residing in any county
1881, eh. 8.
adjoining that in which the suit is pending, is material to him in the
trial of the cause, the justice may continue the cause at the cost of
such party for a period not exceeding two weeks, and forthwith issue
a subpoena for such witness, which subpoena may he directed to n
constable of the county in which the witness resides, and be served
hy such constable, or any other per:mn, as in other cases.
Mt" 1~a. ch.
100. A witness in a civil suit is entitled, at the time the suhprena
:!lfj. ~ 6:!.
1~1. ch. K.
is served, to demand payment of his legal fees for traveling to and
from the place of trial, and one day's attendance.
If he demand
them at such time, and they are not paid, he is not obliged to attend
the trial before the justice. But if at the time of issuing such subpoenn, or afterwards, the party for whom it is issued, file his affldavit with the justice that he is unable pecuniarily to pay the fees
and mileage of bis witness, the justice, if satisfied of the truth of
the affidavit, shall endorse on the subpeena the fact of such aflldnvit
having been made, and in such case the witness shall attend without
the pre-payment of fees or mileage.
·
A,.,,. 11472-3. <'h. l 01. A person attending as a witness under a subprenn, shall ))(>
:!'..!fl. S 03.
1~1. d1. 8.
allowed fifty cents for each day's attendance, and five cents for ench
mile necessarily traveled to the place of attendance, and the same for
returning, and also the tolls and ferriages paid hy him .
. \f't" llri'.!-S. ch.
l 02. Any party calling more than two witnesses to any fact which
~i~,t: ~. is not contradicted by another witness, shall pay the costs of such
A•·t" IRi'!!-a. «h, additional witnesses, unless otherwise ordered hy the justice.
f:i\~7: ~.
108. Xo claim for attendance shall he allowed a witness, unless
•
made before judgment is entered .
. \I'!;: f~J-,J. (' 1 I,
:?"11,. s M. 67.
10-l. Whenever it shall appear., to the sntisfaction or u just ice,
nrn, <'11.1:j.

Digitized by

Google

Cn. 50.J

Ju~TICES ANT> CossTABLES.

that any person has been duly served with a subpo-na to give evidencc before him in a11y matter in which he has the authority to require such witness to appear and testify; that. his evidence is material: and that he fails, or refuses to attend, as required by such subpo.i1121, such person, on reasonable notice, and an opportunity of
being heard, if he do not show sufficient cause for such failure or
refusal, may be fined by the justice not exceeding ten dollars nnd
adjudged to pay the costs of the proceeding ngainst himself.
An
entry of such fine> and costs, stating the reason therefor, must be
made hy the justice in bis docket, and shall have the effect of a
judgment in favor of the State, and may be enforced as other judgments of justices. When n person in attendance refuses to testify,
without showing sutllcient cause, he shall be subject to like penalty.
1 or,. Every person subpo-nued as aforesaid, and failing or refusing :!r.ts 1872-3,
. i:u •
f 6H.
to appear amI testt. f y, wit. I rout suttlcient
cause, aml every person -~.
tllXI. ch. 8.
present at the trial and refusing to testify, without such cause, shall
also he liable to the party requiring his evidence, for all damages
such party may sustain hy such failure or refusal.
I 06. Xo deposition of any person shall be given in evidence on the Jtl.
trial on behalf of either party, if the other object, unless the party
agninst whom it is off «red had reasonable notice of the taking thereof,
unrl was allowed froely to cross-examine the witness, subject to the
rules of law.
107. If a witness offered at a trial bo objected to as incompetent, I<l.
the objection shall he tried and determined hy the justice. The proposed witness may he examined on oath touching the question of his
competency, mul other evidence may he given in support of or against
the objection.
,
1 O~. Tho following persons nrc incompetent to testify, as herein- Iii.
after provided, unrl not otherwise:
Pir:-11. Persons of unsound minds, and children who appear incapuhle of receiving just improsslons of their obligntions to tell the
truth, or the facts respecting which tlwy nre to he examined.
Srcowl. Husband nnd wife, concerning any communication made
hy one to the other during the mnrringe, whether called to testify
while the relation snhsists or after it is dissolved.
Thir)! .. An attorney, without. his client's consent, concerning nny
communicntion mude to him hy his client tonching the matter in
which he is consulted or employed, or any counsel or advice given
hy him to his client.
Fourth, A minister, clergymun or priest of any religions denomination, concerning any confession mnde to him according to the course
of discipline enjoined hy the church to which he belongs.
Fifth, A physician or surgeon, without his patient's consent, concerning nny communicntion made to him by his patient, which was
necessary to enable him to prescribe and treat the case.
10!1. The execution of any written instrument, or of any assign- Id.
ment or endorsement thereof, produced at the trial, need not be

Digitized by

eh,

Google

460

[CH.

,JUSTICES AND CONSTABLES.

50.

proved, unless the adverse party, his agent or attorney, makes oath
that he docs not believe the same to he genuine.
Ads~ tH7:!-a.
ch.
110. Depositions of witnesses residinz~ out of the county,
!?'_'f;,
fKl.
., or sick,
•~•. ch. 11·
or otherwise unable to attend, or about to leave the county, may he
taken by either party on reasonable notice to the other to be used in
trials before u justice; and no commissioner shall he necessary.
:~"/S.
ch.
111. Such depositions shnll he sent under seal to the justice before
-~'1,. ~ IF.!-3.
,ti.
tKHI, eh. H.
whom the case is to be tried, the otnccr taking the same, writing his
name across the place whore it is sealed. And if the witness, at the
time of the trial, he absent from the county! or sick: or otherwise
unable to attend, the deposition, if competent and proper evidence,
may he read in evidence at the trial hy either party.
hi.
112. Every witness, heforc giving his testimony, shall be sworn
that the evidence he will give relating to the matter in difference between the plaintiff' nud defendant shall he the truth, the whole truth,
and nothing but the truth.
A solemn nfllrmntion shall, in all cases,
have the same effect as an oath; nnd the rules of evidence in trials
and proceedings before justices shall, u1*·ss otherwise provided, he
the same ns in the circuit courts.
,]wl g iuen f .~ .
. \ ..h tR'i'J-a. ch.
113. The defendant nrn.y! either before suit is brought, or nt any
~!·1.i/,~: it time afterwards before trial, make an offer in writing to confess
is w.v». H.
judgment in favor of tho plaintiff for the sum or property specified in
such otfer. Such offer shall he served on the plaintiff hy delivering
to him :1. copy thereof, and the original. with proof of the service
thereof, shall he filed with the justice at or before the trial. ] f the
plaintiff fail to accept the said offer hcfore trial, or to giw notice to
the defendnnt of such ae<'l'ptmwe. and <lo not recover a more favorable judgment, t he just ice, on proof of such offer hein~ made, shall
ntljudgl' tho pluiut it]' to pay all costs of the action from the time of
the ott'<·r. 1 f the otl'er so mudo he not nccoptod. it shull not hl' gin·n
in ovidenr-o agntnsl the defcndnnt.
,\(''" 1~:?-:t !'),
11 ·L When tho plaintiff dismisses his uction (except in the <'USC'
'':'II,:~,
1~'1.' ,:,;: ~mentioned in the fifty-seventh sect ion) or [udzrnont is confessed, or
:11 w. \'11. :11>1.
the dPfrrnlnnt is in r-ustody, or property is hvld under attachment.
judgment shall he ontered without tlc•lay. l n other cases judgment
shall h<· entorvd within twenty-four hours (Sundays «xceptod) uftcr
the trial. The just ice or jury shall, in nil cases, ascertain t he hnlunee due (if uuv) from onP party to the other, after allowing nil
claims und <'l'Pditi,. ostuhlishcd 1,y t he party :1g:1i11st whom judgment is
to lu- rendered. :111<1 jwlgnwnt shall h<• entered for tho a~gr(•gah•
amount of priuelpul and interest so as<·Ntai1H•d to he due.
En•ry
[udgnu-nt shall· lx-ur interest from its date, upon such amount.
11 ~). In any cnso tried without a jury. in which it is not otherwise
.\ r-t ~ lk;'?-:t. ('"·
:!'!Ii. ~ ;;1.
heroin provided, the justice who n-ndervrl tho judzmont, mny. on
11'"'1. 1'11. ~motion of Pit her party. tho ot her, hi» a~Pnt or nt torney. l,pin:;r 1u·.-s·
cnt, or hnving luul n•m,011:11,h· uot ivv of t lu- motion, sl't :1si«ll' lht>
judgment, within two weeks after it is cnu-re.l, nnd grant n new trial

Digitized by

Google

Cn. 50.]

.

461

,JUSTICES A~D CONST ABLES.

on such terms and conditions as ho sees fit to impose. But this shall
only be done when the justice ls satisfied that injustice was done by
the judgment to the party by whom the motion is made.
l lG. A judgment may be revived in favor of or against the personal :!::- 's.1~2-:1. ch.
. o f· u l 1 eceaser l party wit
. hiin t h ree years a f ter it
. is
' ren- ~:.:it
* ,.J.
representative
1AA1, .-11. s.
dered, or (unless the three years shall hnve expired before the death
of such party) within two years after his personal representative shall
have qualified.
And such revival may he by an order to that etTect,
entered on his docket by the justice who rendered the judgment, or
his successor, on the motion of the party in whose favor the judgment
was rendered, or his personal reprcsentutive, the other party, or his
personal representative, agent or attorney being present, or having
had reasonable notice of such motion.
117. J udgments of justices may he docketed in the judgment lien .\,its IM.li. p. 19.
docket kept in the office of the clerk of the county court in like man-ir:!-3• ch. :t..~. i
ner and with like effect, in all respects, as the judgments of circuit 1881, ch. K
courts.
118. The person in whose favor a judgment is rendered by a justice, Ar,t" 1866. p. is,
. en uu
.
or w I10 1s
1. e< It o receive
t h e money <l ue t l iereon, or any par t o f1>r...?-a,ch.:!'.!6.§
;n.
. t l I<' e I er·k s o fl'1Ce o f ti re circuit
.
. court o f t h e county m
. l~I
f'h K
1it , may fil e m
15 ,,·. v~. 183.
which the judgment was rendered, n transcript thereof, certified by
the justice who bas the lawful custody of the docket in which such
judgment is entered; and the said clerk may issue executions thereon
in the same manner, and with like effect as if the judgment had been
rendered by the circuit court. The transcript, filed as aforesaid,
shall be entered by the clerk in his execution docket and indexed in
the name of both plaintiff and defendant, and he filed in separate
bundles for each year, for which service the clerk shall be entitled to
a foe of fifty cents, to he paid hy the person at whose instance the
same is rendered.
11 H. No justice! or constable shall purchase any judgment rendered .\l"ts 187"..?-3. ch,
in their county by a justice thereof. Every person violating this f:i.\T;· 1o1.
provision shall, for every such offence, be fined not less than ten nor
more than one hundred dollars.
S11ggn-:tio,u1 011 judgments.
120. On a suggestion by a judgment creditor, verified by affidavit, .\,·ts tAA.'l, p, Ill.
to the justice who rendered the judgment, or his successor, that any Jf..!·:J. ch. :!!II,~
person, whether in the same or another county, has effects of the!~!·{J:: :;_.R.
judgment debtor in his possession or control, not exempt by law from
execution, or is liable to the debtor in any sum of money, whetherf" w.v». :!I.
then due and payable, or thereafter to become so, not exempt from
the lien of an execution, the justice shall order such person and the
judgment debtor to appeur he fore him at the time and place specified
in such order, and answer, under oath, respecting such effects and
liability; and may also subprena witnesses to testify concerning the
same.
1 :!l. The order shull be aizned bv the justice and served and re- Ad~ tH'i:!-:t ch.
•
'--'
J
•
•
!.!".!fi. j ill.
turned hke a summons, but the exact time of the service shall be issr, ch. s,

i1 ~r.i::: ~:

Digitized by

Google

4G2

_\,·t~ J!.7:!-3.
:!:.~i. ~ HO.
1881. 1'11. 8.

,JU8TJCES A-SD CoNSTARLER.

[CH. 50.

stated in the return. And the person suggested as having such effects, or as liable to the judgment debtor for a sum of monc>y, shall
from time of the service thereof on him, be liable to the judgment
creditor for whatever effects (real estate excluded) of the judgment
debtor, not exempt by luw from execution, were in his possession or
control when the order was served, and whatever amount he wns then
liable for to the judgment debtor not exempt from the lien of an execution, whether then due and payable or thereafter to become so, hut
so far only as may be necessary to satisfy the judgment, including
the costs of the proceedings upon the suggestion, Prorided, Such
effects, or the sum of money for which any such person is so liable,
shall not he liable to the judgment creditor if the judgment debtor
shall show to the satisfaction of the justice that he is a husband or
parent and is a. resident of the State, and that his personal estate,
including such effects and money does not exceed two hundred dollars. Aud prorid,·df11rtl1f·r, That no such order shall be issued until
the judgment creditor shall file with the justice a hond with good
security, to be approved by such justice in a penalty at least double
the amount of bis claim against the judgmont debtor, with condition
that if he fail to hn ve the property or money, or hot h (:U1 the cnse
may he) in the bands of, or owing hy the person su~gl•sh•d, applied
to the payment of his claim, he will pay to tho judgment debtor nil
such costs and dnruagos as ho may sustain hy reason of the filing and
trial of such suggestion.
··h.
12~. If the person ngainst whom such order is issued, or any of
them appear and answer, such person shall he examined under oath
touching t ho money and etlects for which the person so sug~l'Slc'tl is
liahle as aforesaid. and the justice shall hoar any proper evidence respecting the sumo. 1f the 1wrson so sugµ<•ste<I fail to appear. and
it he shown that the order was served on him ten days. at least. hefore tho time of appearance spor-iflod therein. tho justice may hoar
proof rcspt•<·ting the money anti <•tfc•cts for which such person iR liuhle us aforesaid: or on motion of the [udjrment creditor. may appoint nnother time, and cause not less thnn rou d:iys· notice to IK.'
~in~n to the pt.•r:-.on so liable, that unless lu- :1ppP:1r and answer at the
time so nppoiuterl, it will lll' taken as an admission that ho has in his
hands sutlicient 111011<·~· of tho [udgment debtor to satiHfy tho j1ul~ment, including the cost of t hv prrn·t.•Pdinµs on tho sui.:q.!<'stion. If
he fail to appear at tho l inu- so Inst. appointed, and it h<• shown that
tho notk-e was served not l<•ss than ten days lwforP that t ime, or if
at any time he app<>nrand rvfusv to answer any proper question, and
in oit her case no good cause hl• shown for such fuilure or refusal. the
[ustir-e may pro<·t•l•d as if he had udmitto.l sutllcir-nt mont•y to IK' in
his hands. /',-u,.id,·d. That if tlu- pt•i·son so linhlr- rl'sitll• in another
countv, IH' nrny answer in writin~. under oath. nnd SH<'h nnswvr, if
sullk-ieut. shall ht> P•1uirnlt·nl to his pvrsonul app<·aranct· and r-xaminat ion : or if insutlieu-nt. ho shall hi' vxuminod on intorrogutorios
in
writing, approved and allowed hy the just.ice ; uud his failure to file

Digitized by

Google

Cn. 50.J

,JuSTICE8

463

A~n Co'.'\STAill.ES.

with the [ustiee his answers under oath, to such interrogatories,
within two weeks after he has been served with a copy thereof, shall,
unless goorl cause therefor he shown. be taken as an admission that
he has in his hands sufficient money of the judgment debtor to satisfy the judgment, including the costs of the proceedings on the
suggestion.
l :!:J. If it appear hy the admission or exnrninnt ion of the person .\"'" IRi:!-3.
against whom the proceedings on the sug-gcstion arc pending,' or by f!h\t1:t~.
other evidence, that he is liahlc for any money or effects of the judgment debtor, not exempt from execution under section one hundred
and twenty-one, whether sufllcient to satisfy the judgment or not.
the justice shall order such person, if it he :1 sum of monf'y, to pay
the same to the judgment creditor, to he applied first to the costs of
the proceedings on the suggestion, and the balance to the discharge
of the judgment: hut if it be shown that such sum of money is not
yet due and pnyahle, the> order shull he for the payment thereof at
the time (to be stated in such order), when it will he due and payable.
If such person he liable for etreets other than money, the justice shall ascertain the value thereof, and order such person to pay
the said value, or so much as will be sufflcient, on a certain <lay to
h(! specified in tho order, to t he judgment creditor, to he applied as
aforesaid, unless such person on or before that day, deliver the said
effects, or a sutftciencv thereof, to the officer designated hy the justice to receive the same. 1 f cffeet.s he so delivered, they shall be
sold as if taken on execution, under an order of sule to be made by
the justice, and the proceeds tu he applied as nforesuld.
124. .:\. n v order made bv the 1· ustiee pursuant to the preced in 2: sec- .\ct,; isrea
~:!
tion, directing the payment of mom•y hy the person against whom il*!'1. ,·ta.' H.
.
l
.
.
.
l
.
f
lt88:!.t:IJ.Hn.
t l ie proceer 1 mgs on t re suggestion were instituter , may he en orcer
hy execution against such person in the name of the judgment creditor, when such money is, or becomes due and payable; and an appeal shall lie from such order on behalf of uriy party interested, to
the circuit court, in like cases nnd manner as from other judgments
of justices. The word "person" in this and the four preceding sections, shall be construed to include corporations as well as natural
persons.
If any such order us is mentioned in the> next preceding
section. he made by a justice without the service on the judgment
debtor of the order mentioned in the one hundred and twentieth section of this chapter, such judgment debtor or his personal representntive may, within one year after the <late of the order mentioned in
this and the next preceding section, upon giving bond with good SC·
curity, in such reasonublc penalty as the justice may prescribe, with
condition that be will pay and satisfy all costs which have accrued,
or may accrue in the case if the said order be atllrmed, have the case
re-heard, and may make any defence therein which might have been
made if he had appeared before such order wns made. If on such
re-hearing the decision of the justice' he for the judgment debtor, or
his personal representative, in case of his death, the justice shall or~
•

.

~

L•

Digitized by

''".)}

"ti.

eh.

~

Google

464

[CH. 50 .

•Jm:;TICES A-SD (1o'SSTA1H,ES.

der the plaintiff in the suggestions in which such order was mnde, to
restore any money or property received by him under such order, and
if money has been received, with interest thereon from the date of
the order under which it was received. und may enter judgment
therefor; and if the decisiou of the justice be against said judgment
debtor, or his personal rcpresentutive, on such re-hearing, the orlginal order shall he confirmed, and in either case the prevailing party
shall recover his costs.
,\'tay ,if r·.rr·1·11tion.
.\1\I" l~:!-3, ch.
125.
The
party
against
whom u judgment is rendered hy a justice
:!"~. ~ H:t
l~l,ch. 8.
may within twenty <bys thereafter obtain a stny of execution thereon
by filing with the justice a bond with good security. to he approved
by the [ustice in a penalty double the :nnonnt of the judgment, conditioned to the effect that the amount of such judgment, including
interest and costs, will he paid at the «xpirntion of the stay. The
justice shall note the filing of the bond in his docket, stating the
names of the parties signing the same, and the time of stay nllowed.
Upon such bond being so filed, if execution has been previously issued, it shall be recalled by UH• [ustice.
.\,·ts 11','i'.!-3, ch.
121-i. If the judgment with interest and costs, l,e not paid when the
:!'.'Ii.~ fH.
1~1.ch. 8.
stay expires, the hond shall have tho etf'ect of a [udgmcnt, and tho
execution shnll issue jointly against the judgment debtor and the
parties who signed the bond.
It shall he the duty of the justice to
issue such execution within three days after the stay expires, unless
otherwise ordered hy the party who is entitled to receive the money
to he collected thereon .
. \ ... ~ llr.'.!·3, ch.
1~7. When the judgment, exclusive of interest and costs, does not
~i\~\t exceed fifty dollars, such stay shall ht• for two months ; unrl if over
fifty dollars nnd not over one hundred dollars, for four mouths; and
if over one hundred dollars, fur six months.
\,•1,.. 1ir..!-:t ch.
1 ~H. No stay of execution shall he allowed in the following vases :
:!".!Al.~ ~I.
1~1. ch. 8.
First. On m1y judgment upon n bond filed to obtain such stay.
s,.mwl. On the judgment rendered on any other hond filed with a
justice or given to n constable pursuant to this chapter.
Third. On nny judgment nguinst n justice or constahle for refusing or neglecting to p:ty as the law requires, mom•y collected or received by such justice or constable in his oflk-inl capacity; or against
:L constable for foiling to mnke return, or making a false return of
any process or order.
A«'.'-' llr.'.!-3. ch.
1 :W. If any surety who si~1wcl tho hond giwn to obtain a stay of
:!:!II. !i l<i.
1~1. ch. a
execution, pay the [udgruent J,pfon• or nfu-r the stay expires, t lujudgment nguinst tlu- priucipnl shall rernuin in force for his use; and
execution thereon mny he issued hy the justice on the application of
such surety, after the expiration of the stny, with an endorsement on
such execution showing for whom it is to lw collected .
. \,·t .. ll'r..!·3. ch.
1 :10. If tho [uatioe, ut nny time lwforc the stay expires, lxx-om«
"f~'::h\~\. satisflcd that the sPeurity taken on µ-muting such stay is insutlk-iont,
he shall give notice to the judgment debtor requiring additional SC•

Digitized by

Google

Cu.

50.J

,JUSTIC'Ei-l ASD

-W5

CosST.\HI.F.!..

curity ; and if it he not ~i\'en within three days after service of the
notice, he shall uiake un t>ntry of the fact on bis docket, and forthwith issue execution on the judgment.
But if uddit.ional security tu
the satisfaction of the just ice, be given within two weeks nfter the
service of the notice, the execution if issued in the meantime, shall
he recalled. and the stay originally granted remain in force.
f. :.rr-c11l1011 1111d 11rd,·1· '!( sul« of prop,·rl.'f.
Ial. Subject to the provisions of law in relation to case's in which ,,.1,.. J!o!i~!-:I. <·h.
stay of execution is ~runte<l, or the judgment is removed on uppeul '[!·1.\~\.
to the circuit court, executions for the enforcement of the judgment f~1."'· v«. t3:.l.
of a justice in a civil action may be issued hy the justice h,r whom
such judgment was rendered, 01· his successor in otllce, or the justice with whom the docket on which such judgment is entered is lawfully deposited, at any time within three years from the entry of the
judgment or the date of tho Inst execution issued thereon, or if the
judgment be revived, from the date of such revival.
13:!. If u 8tnf of execution he not granted within twenty days ·~··.•-yr.::.;;. ,·11.
. l ~ment is
. renr 1 erec l , or the
r. cause I ,e not remover l on np- =--"'
· !ii 1111. 8.
n f ter t h c JU<
tNil.'i·h.
peal to the circuit court within that time. it shnll he the duty of the
justice, on the expiration of the said t wcntv duys, to issue execution,
unless otherwise directed by tho pC'rson entitled to receive the money
collected thereon ; and on the appllcntion of such person, the justice
shull issue execution heforc the twenty days expire.
133. Every j ustice shall recei vc the money tendered to him on any~;;'.'::·t~;'.87:!·3.
claim in suit before him, or on any [uIgment on his (locket, or any Jlil:lt. eh. 8.
(locket lawfully in his possession. on which no execution has been
issued, or, if issued, has been returned unsatisfied, and no other
execution has been issued thereon since such return, nnd pay the
same on demand to the person entitled thereto.
Pn11·id,·d, Xo money
shall be received hy a justice until he has executed a bond according
to law.
rn-1. If a justice foil to pay any money which comes to his hands Ill.
by virtue of his office, when demanded by the person entitled thereto,
such justice and the sureties in his official bond, or any one or more
of them, and the personal representatives of such of them as are
dead, shall be liable to the person entitled thereto for such money,
with legal interest thereon from the time of such demand, and ten
per cent. on the principal, in addition, as damugos.
13~. The execution must be filled up before it is delivered to be .,d~ 1ir.2-3, ch.
executed: otherwise it shall he void. It must describe the judgment ~i.,,.ri'.· 1.i.
•·· 1'1· tt ts
· issuec
·
11 l)" sta timg t 1 ie party 111
· w I rose f avor, am.l t J H' ts
on wuic
<!'-.····w.vs.
·~a~ ... >m.
purty against whom, the justice hy whom, and the county and district in which such judgment was rendered, It must also state the
principal sum to be collected, the time the interest commenced, the
amount of costs to he collected, and tho credits, if any, to which it
is subject by reason of payments made since the judgurcnt was rendered,
It shall be rctumuhle sixty days from its <late, he signed t:? <.iratl. un.
by the justice, and command the person to whom it is directed to

Digitized by

Google

466

[ Un. 50.

,JUSTICES AND CosSTABI.ES.

collect the amount due out of the personal property of the judgment
debtor, and pay the money made to the party entitled thereto, and
make return thereof, showing how it has been executed. lf there
he any defect, error or omission in an execution, or any other order
issued by a justice for the sale of property, they shall not vitiate anything done under it which would have been proper if the execution or
order had been correctly issued, hut the justice may, at uuy time,
amend the same according to the truth.
1:..!-3.
ch.
136. The execution or order of sale muy he directed nnd executed
l~iv~·~:/i11. as provided in the seventeenth section of this chapter. When, for
1Scc cuse.)
any cause, it is unfit for an execution or order of sale to he directed
to a constable, it may he directed to the sheriff, deputy sheriff, or
sergeant of a town or village, and the sergeant of a town or village,
to whom any cxeeutiou or order of sale issued hy a justice is directed,
mu.y, like the others, execute the same within the county, or on any
creek or river adjoining the same.
.\r-t:,; 18'.!·3, ch.
1:37. If an execution be returned unsatisfied, or no return be made
:?'..'A\.§ \l:i.
1881, ch. 8.
thereof, new executions may successivuly be issued ufter the return
day of the former, to be endorsed respcot ivcly , "seeond execution;"
"third execution," and so forth. us the case may he.
Act" Hl'i'.!-3, ch.
Ia8. When a joint judgment is rendered against a principal dehtor
fi!i\ri~· 8. and his surety, if such suretyship appear to the satisfaction of the
justice by any evidence at the trial, or paper filed in the cause, or hy
admission of the parties, he shall note the fact on his docket and in
such case a memorandum thereof shall be endorsed on the execution,
and the personal property of the principal debtor, subject to execution, within the jurisdiction of the otlicer, shall he first sold, unless
the surety direct otherwise.
co,lt· Va. p. li4.
13U. The officer to whom un execution issued hy u just ice is de.\t·L;. 18'.!-3, ch. •
·
:?:.'!\., Ua.
livered to be executed, shall endorse thereon the day uud hour when
1881.
ch. s.
. came to lus
. l mm I s. If lie f a1. I to l lo so, t lie crec
. 1 itor
·
it
may recover
ugninst him and his sureties, or any one or more of them, and the
personal representntives of such of them as are dead, before the justice by whom the execution was issued, or his successor, a sum not
exceeding fifteen per cent. on the whole amount, iucluding interest
and costs due on the execution. From the time the execution came
O w. v». 5:!!.
-to the hands of such olllcer to he executed, it shall opcrute as u lien
on the personal property of the judgment debtor, liuhle to lw seized
I:! Grutt, 401.
under it; which lien, however, shall he su bject to any prior lien acquired on such property hy the issue or levy thereon of nny other
process.
'\'hen there are several executions in the hunrls of the same
oJHcer against the same judgment debtor, they shall he executed in
the order in which they were received; or if received togt.•tlwr, all
shall share alike, without preference lo one OYN another.
Co•l•· v«, p, ;;.t
1-10. The otllcer, after taking into his custody the personal prop.\et" tH'i.!·3, cti.
. 1 on I •y virtue
.
l oxeeutiou,
.
~.,
oo.
er t y 1 evier
o f tie
s l m 11 em I urse on lh c oxecu8·
1~1' ch.
tion the time of the levy, and endorse thereon or annex thereto a list
Qf the vropcrty. l le shull then luimedintely post notice al three

~~~i

Digitized by

Google

Cu. 50. J

467

,JUSTICES ASD CONSTARl,ES.

public places in the district in which such property, or the greater
part in value thereof was found (and if any mules, work-oxen, or
horses, are to he sold, on the front door of the court house of the
county) of the time and place at which it will be sold. Such notice
shall describe the property, or there shall he u list thereof annexed
to the same, and the notice shall be posted ten days at least (or if
any mules, work-oxen, or horses are to he sold, twenty days at least)
before the time of sale. But when property levied on is of a perishable nature or expensive to keep, the justice may order sale to he
made thereof, as the case may require.
The execution may he levied
as well on money and bank notes as on other goods and chattels. If
the levy he on lawful money, the same shall he accounted fur at its
par value as so much money made under the execution.
If it he
upon notes, und the creditor will not take them at their nominal
value, they shall he sold and accounted for as any other property
taken under execution.
811 [e« u 111fr r c.r ccu! i1111, de.
l-11. All sales on execution and orders of sale, bv virtue of this
~
•
•
,\.-f:; 187'.!·3,
chapter, except as horeiuafter provided, shall he at public uucuon m ~;. ~ 97.
1881.
8•
. .m w hi
ch,
t l1e l li
istrict
re I 1 t lre property, or t lie gr~ater part t lrereo f ·iu va l ue,
was levied on, between the hours of ten in the forenoon and four
in the afternoon on the <lay appointed for the sale, and at the house
or on the premises where the property was taken, or at one of the
most public places in the district.
~Jules, work-oxen awl horses
shall be sold nt the court house of the county, on a circuit or county
court day, between the hours herein stated, except where the parties
shall, in writing, authorize the officer to dispense with this requirement, in which case the sale shull he made in the same manner as
other sales on execution and orders of sale, as herein provided.
At
the time und place appointed for the sale, the officer or person shall
sell to the highest bidder, for cash, except as hereinafter provided,
the property (except lawful. money and such bank notes as the creditor will take at their nominal value) or so much thereof as may be
uecessary ; but if there he not time to complete the sale on the <lay
appointed, it may be adjourned from day to day until· completed.
Before any such sale shall be made, if the judgment debtor, his agent
or attorney, or, in their absence, his wife, so desire, the property to
he sold shall he appraised by two disinterested householders of the
district, one to be selected by the judgment debtor, bis agent, attorney, or wife, as uforesaid, and the other hy the judgment creditor,
his agent or attorney, or in their absence or failure to act, by the officer who made the levy, who, after being duly sworn, for the purpose,
shall appraise, at its fair cash value, each item of property to be
sold. and reduce their apprnisement to writing and sign the same.
1f they disagree as to the value of any such item, the officer making
the levy shall, on his official oath, net as umpire in the case; and his
decision, and that of one of said appraisers, shall determine the value
of such itetu, Said appraisemcnt shall he returned by such officer,

Digitized by

ch.

Google

....

468

[Cu. 50.

,Jt:STI<'ES AND Co:'lSTAHLES

with the execution. Upon any such property heing otlered for sale
for cash, if no bid lx- made therefor amounting to two-thirds of its
uppruised value, no sale thereof shall then hl' mude for cash, if such
uppruised value exceed tlve dollars, but the same shall then he
offered for sale, one-half on a credit of four months, and the residue
of eight mouths, the purchaser giving his notes, with good security,
hearing interest from date, for the purchase money.
If, when so
offered, a greater sum be bid for such property than was otf ered in
cash. the sale shall he made on such credit; otherwise the cash hid
shall be received.
The notes. if any, taken on such sale shall, if
not pnid when duo, he returned to the justice, who shall endorse
thereon the date of the return. and from that day they shall have the
force of judgments, and executions thereon may he issued by the
justice, on five days' notice, to the persons signing the same, or their
personal ropresen tali ves.
<' 1·· v«. p. ;;i.
1-1~. 1f at any such sale a purchaser <lo nut comply with the terms
.\•·•~ l1'i"!-:1. 1'11.
•
'.!!Ii.~!~.
thereof', the otllcer may re-sell the property, either forthwith or upon
ll'<l'<L ,·1i. H.
l
.
I 1
sue 1 notice as re < L'('ms proper, or return thut the property was not
sold fur want of bidders. l f on the re-sale the property be Hold fur
less than it sold for before, the first purchaser shall he liable for the difforence to the creditor, so fur as it is necessary to sntify him, and to
the debtor for the balance.
.\,•t,- )l'(j:.!-:1. ch.
1-ta. Neltber the justice who issued, nor the officer holding the exf!\\:t !( ccution or any order of sail', shall purchase, directly or indirectly,
any property sold on such execution or order. lf either of them
shall do so, he shall he fined not loss than five nor more thnn 01w
hundred dollars.
l .J.J. The oflk-er shall he allowed by the justice the reasonuhle exltl.
pcnses of «xecutlng tho process and keeping the property, out of the
proceeds of snle, or the same may lie taxed uud collected as other
costs in the act ion.
111

Officcrt1 return ..
c- .. ,1 .. v«. p.'.~I.
~·- ,H:1.
.\,.,,. IS7'.!·:J. cit.
:!'-'II. ~ IUI.
1N11. ..i.. K

1-15. The olllccr, to whom nn execution or order of sale is dolivcrer I to be executed, shu l l make true return thereon at the proper
tinne um1 p I ace, stat .mg 111
. sueI 1 return t I w tune
.
unr1 mnnner ·o f CXL'cnting the writ or order. or why it has not In-en executed: and shall
subscribe his name to such return. He shull µny the money made.
except his own fvos and costs. to the party entitled thereto. When
any property is sold under the oxeoution or order, he shall return
with the writ. or order a true account of such snlo, S}>t'eifying till' sevcrul articles sold and the prices thereof. If there he nny property
n-muining in his humls unsold, subject to the execution or order. Ill'
shall annex to his return a true list of such property, specifying the
sr-verul nrtk-k-s.
lf he fail herein, he shall he fined not cxct'l'tlin~
ten dollars : and, moreover. he and his surr-t ies, or any one or more
of them, and t lu- personal represcututives of such as are demi. shull
he Iinble for such failure to the pl•rson ent itk-d to receive the money
mentioned m the cxecut ion or order. .\ jmlgmPnt for such fine shall

Digitized by

Google

Cn. 50.J

,JUSTICER AND CO:'.START.EA.

nut he a hnr to further prococdiugs, if the fuilun- he continued; hut
there shall he n further flue, from time to time, of not eXl'Cl•<1ing- ten
dollars for every month subsequent to such judgment thut the failure shnll continue. until it appear that the return cannot he 111:ul<>, or
thut the amount due upon the execution or order has been paid tu the
creditor. l',·m·i,l,,,l, That not more thnn ten dollars' fine shull he
recovered in nny one prosecution.
14G. I f uny officer make such return upon an execution or order of,· ... ,,. v». 11. ,;1:1.
•
I l>y n JUS
· t•.ice us entit· 1 C'S any 1wrson to recover monl'Y f rum.. :!.'Ii.~
\.,ts IH"i:!-:1. ch
sa 1 e issuec
1111.
such officer, and fail to pay the snrno as he ought, the just i<·c having ~~-c\t\-~·. :ui.
jurisdiction mny, on motion or nction on hohnlf of such person, ~in/-.liO·
judgment against such officer aud his securities, or nny one or more
of them, or the personal rcpresr-ntutives of such of them as ure dead,
for Ro much principal und interest as is due at the time the [udgment
is rendered, with interest thereon at the rate of not l('HS than six nor
more than fifteen 11,·r ('1'11111111 per annum, us the [ustice may deem
proper, from that time until payment.
147 . .A eopy from the entry in the [ustices docket, of the date of\','.'.':· ,~~~J;:":.'f::
any execution or order of sale issued 1,y him, nnd to whom dvlivored, f~·,\!,'t\.
shnll he evidence in any proceeding against the ofltcl'r to whom it is
entered as delivered, for failure to make due return thereof, or failing to pay over money received thereon. If a justice, upon being
applied to for n copy of nny entry, refuse it, or upon being summoned to produce tho docket in which such entry is or ought to
have heen made, fail to produce such entry, he shnll forfeit twenty
dollars to the person making such application, or on whose behalf he
is summoned.
14H. Jf an officer collect mo1wy mentioned in an execution or or-, ,.,.1,. v». 11.,i-i:i.
der of sale issued hy n justice nftor the return day thereof, he and ~~.\~~ 1
ch.
his suret ies shall ht.• liuhle for the money so collected, in like iuunner ~~'.;,::\~:
as if the collection hnd heen made before the return <lay. And if n f t;~{'\·;'.~~l.
constable receive money on account of any claim entrusted to him to
sue upon or collect, he and his sureties shnll he liable for the money
so received, as for money collected under cxecution ; nnd after six
months from the <late of any receipt for such claim, signed in his
official character, such receipt shall he prima fw·i,, evidence of the
receipt of the money.
U!J. When nn execution or order of sale is returned unsatisfied in~;~~
3• ch.
whole or in part, and there is property in the hands of tho omen re- it~·a~!'.'ri.
maining unsold for the want of hi'1<h•rs, or other cause, it shall he the
duty of the justice, unless otherwise directed by the person entitled
to receive the mom~y remaining uncollected, forthwith to issue bis
order commanding such officer to sell the said property and pny over
the proceeds thereof to the said party entitled thereto, which sale shall
he subject to tile sumo r<'gnlations as sales on execution.
150. Any otfleer having levied on properly of which he permits ~;;t"s '~i-:t ch.
the party against whom the execution or order of sale issued, or any 1"81. eh. K.
other person, to retain or have possession, mu.y lake such security

~;,-:J,

1tJ/

Digitizedby

Google

470

.JUSTICES

[Cn. 50.

AND CoNST.\HLES.

for his own indemnity us he shall require, that such property shall
be delivered at the time and pluce appointed for the sale thereof.
lV/11'11 propu·f!J

frrinl

011

clainu«! l,y II p,,r.-,ou otlu-r th1111 tl« j11d9uunt
whiff to ln- dont'.

debtor,

151. When an officer by virtue of an execution, order of sale, or
order of attachment, has levied on or attached, or is about to sell,
tn w. v». t:!i·I( property claimed by any person other than the party against whom
U.1e execution or order is issued, if such cluimunt or another for him,
shall file with the justice hy whom the execution or order was issued,
or his successor, his petition stating such a claim to or interest in the
property levied on, or about to be sold, us entitles him to have the
same released from such levy, or to prevent the sale thereof (as the
case may he), and praying that nu issue be unule upon said petition
hy tile justice to try the claimant's right or interest in said property;
and shall at tile same time deliver to the justice u bond with good
security, to be approved hy the justice, in a penalty at least double
the value of the said property, with condition that if the claimant,
on the trial of said issue, shall fail tu prove that at the time of such
levy, or at the time said property was about to he sold, as aforesaid,
he had such claim thereto, or interest therein, as is hereiubefore
stated, he will pay to the plaintitl in such execution, or order, the
value of the property or so much thereof a~ will he necessary to pay
the pluiutitt's claim and the costs of the trial of such issue, the justice
shall issue his order directed to the officer having such execution,
order of sale, or attachment, commanding him to deliver up the property to the said claimant; and such ottlcer shall obey the same.
The justice shall note in his docket the filing of such petition and
bond, and the issue on said petition shall he made up by the answer
of the plaintitf in tile execution or order, denying the nllcgalions of
said petition, and the nlllrmnti ve of such issue shall be with the said
claimant. The proceedings on such issue shall he the same in all
respects as in other cases in n justice's court. If the judgment of the
justice, or the verdict of n jury. on such issue, be for the plaintiff in
such execution or order, the justice or jury (if the issue he tried hJ u
jury) shall ascertain the vnlue of the property so claimed, and the
justice shall thereupon render [udgment for the pluintitf agninst the
claimant and his sureties in such bond for the sum so nsccrtuiued, or
for so much thereof as may be lll•l•t•ssary to pay the plaintiff's claim,
and the costs incurred by him in the trial of such issue.
But if such
issue he found for the cluiruunt, he shall recover his costs against
such plulutitt.
.\i,t, tl'li:!·3. ch
15~. Or the claimant in such cnsvs, without giviul,! the bond men:!:.'fl. ~ lll'i.
tioned in the prPccdin~ s<•etion, may apply to uny justice of the
l~I. d1. I(
!8!t.!.eh. l!f.
county in which the levy or nttac-hun-nt was made for an order to
notify both the creditor uud dehtor to uppeur a111l show cause why
the property should not he disehaq.!t•d from the lt·,·y, order of sale or
uttuchment. ~uclt order shall be returnable in five d:1ys or less from
·"''" tRit-a. ch.

;~·,\\'.~\'!.

Digitized by

Google

CH. 50.]

4~1

,JI:STICES AND,COXSTABLE8.

the (late thereof. nnd he served and returned according to the command thereof, and if it he returned served, the justice on the return
day thereof. or at such reasonable time thereafter as he may appoint
for the purpose, shall hear the parties or such of them as attend, nnd
dismiss the claim or order the otllccr to deliver the property to the
claimant, ns the right shall appear, and the party prevailing shall
recover his costs.
The justice may also make any order necessary
to prevent the property from being sold before the right thereto is
determined as aforesaid.
15:-t Any party considering himsel f ag~riewd hy the decision of .\ds 1~:t
1~
· t"we, or ven 1·re t o r n jury,
·
· 1 rer o f t I ie t .wo precer 1·mg :!'!ti.
t h e JUS
nnc 1 er eit
1~1: ' ch. 8.
sections, may appeal therefrom to the circuit court in like manner as
from a judgment.
154. The word =offlcor .. is intended to include any person specially Id.
deputed hy tho justk-e, pursuant to the thirtieth section, unless such
construetion he inconsistent with tho context; and tbe justice and his
sureties shall he deemed the sureties of such officer, according to the
thirty-first section.
l111prisn11111c11t

11/ fr,11ul11ln1/

ch.

,1,,/,/tJr.

155. When judgment is rendered aguinRt n defendant, who is in .\rb tR'i'.!-!l. ch.
custody under un order of arrest issued pursuant to the fortieth sec- ~i\1.'~\.
lion, the justice, if upon the whole evidence produced, he believe
the defendant to have been guilty of fraud in any of the particulars
mentioned in that section, may issue an order to the officer haviug
him in custody to deliver him to the jailer of the county, to he confined in jail until lawfully discharged, which order shall he executed
according to the command thereof.
With such order an execution
may ulso he issued.
156. If at any time after a judgment rendered hy a justice, there :!<•t;;yr..:?-3, eh.
. ti l eu1 wit. I 1 sue l 1 justice,
.
.
. successor, t . l ie a ftl1<l avit
. or a tti' < 1 ants
· :!!ti.
I IO.R
is
or l us
rsst.s l'-11.
of one or more credible persons, stating the amount yet remaining
unpaid on the said judgment, and showing to the sntisfuction of the
[ustice that the person against whom such judgment was render~d
bas, since the date thereof, been guilty of fraud in nuy of the particulnrs mentioned in the fort iot.h section, the justice may thereupon
issue an order for the arrest of such person, and to hring him before
said justice for examination as to such nllt>g<'cl fraud.
If, after
hearing nil the evidence adduced hy the parties upon such examination, the justice he satisfied that the judgment debtor has been guilty
of frnud in any of the particulars so alleged against him, he may
order him to he imprisoned, us provided in the preceding section.
15i . An execution may he issued with the order mentioned in the .\,·ts l~?-a. ch.
last section, or the order mny hl' issued while an execution is out- f~·,\11:.\.
standing ; and if sullicicnt property he found to satisfy the execution tho order shall not he executed, or if executed, the person so in
custody shall he discharged.
The order shall he dated the day it is
issued, he signed hy the justice, directed like the summons, and

Digitized by

Google

472

[Cu. 50.

• JUSTICES AND CON8TAHL1''.S.

may he executed out of the county where the judgment was rendered, if the ddPn<lant escape or he out of such county; and if an
execution be issued with it, or be outstanding, both shall he directed
to the same otllcer for execution. It shall state the parties to the
judgmvut.deht, interest and costs, and the credits to which the judgment is subject, as required in un execution ; and conunund the otllccr to
nrrest the party against whom the judgment was rendered, and deliver him to the jailer of the county, to he confined in jail until
luwfully discharged.
It shall he returnable whenever executed, or
if not previously executed, in sixty days from its date; and shall be
executed according to the command thereof .
. \,•ts iir.:!-:l. ch,
lf>8. But the order mentioned in tho one hundred and fifty-sixth
:t"~I. ~ II:!.
l!'i.~I. ,·1,. K
section shall not he issued until n bond, signed hy one or more sufflcicnt parties, to he approved by the justice, in a penalty at leust
double the sum claimed in the nfflduvit,' hut in no case less than one
hundred dollars, is filed with the justice, with condition to pay the
person to he arrested all damages he may sustain by such arrest uml
imprisonment, if it should thereafter appear that the order was issued without sutlicient cause therefor .
. \,•t,- 1>'7'.?·:l. et..
15!1. A co1>.Y of the order .. either in the cnse mentioned in the one
~'II.~ 11:t
J!Q\J. ,·It.>'.
hundred and fifty-fifth or one hundred and fifty-sixth section, sigrw41
hy tho justice, or the officer having the prisoner in custody, shall hl'
sutllcient to require the jailer to receive and keep such prisoner in
jail until discharged according to law .
. \ .. ,,. 1im-:1. ch.
1 GO. The prisoner committed as aforesaid, unless sooner disi~i.\.11:.\. charged, as provided for in the forty-first section of this chapter or
otherwise, shall he kept in jail for kn <lays, und one dny in addition
for every ten dollars over twenty dollars clue on the said judumcnt
ut the commenccmont of his imprisonment, including interest and
eosts: and at the expirnt.ion of the said t.iuu- shall he dischurgcd hy
the jailer without further order .
. \•·ts 1,-;;-~ :1. ,·h.
1 til. lie shnll lx- discharged by order of the justice at any time.
~~i. ~ 11~1.
. paym~
.
I.
• 1 .
.
I
I 1
l1-0<I. ,-i,. x,
upon I us
to the
saH justic«, or to t ie party entit <'< thereto,
the whole amount due on the judgment, togt•tlwr with the costs of
his urrest and imprisonment: or surrendering property sutlleiont to
satisfy the sUJUl', to such otllcr-r as the> justice may direct to rocoive
und !·H-11 the said property: or hy tlling with tho just ice a hond. with
good :-1('<•urity, to he approved hy him, to pay t lu- [udgurout anti c·osts
uforesuid, within sixty days.
lf such hond he not paid when due,
it shall haw the force unrl t•ff'<•et of a juduinout from t hat duto
a~ainst the ohligors t herein, and exer-ut ion rnuy hl• uwnrded t hereon
hy the justice, upon flve days· notice to the obligors, or their personal representutivos. lf propt•rty ho so surrenrh-n-d, it shull '"-'
sold anti upplied as if levivd 011 under an e xvvu t ion .
. \,·t· i!-r.·! :l. ,.,,.
1 ti:!. The purty ut whosr- instuucv nny person is committed ns afore.f.!i\\'.'\. snid, shall ht• liuhh- to tlu- [nik-r for his ft>PS awl till' support of the
prisoner, anc1 tlH' jaih·r may at :my t iuu-. nftr-r rousonuhle not ir-e to
suvh party, clii·whaq.!;t' t lu- prisoru-r if s1wh h•t•:-. uml support he not
puid.

...

Digitized by

Google

Cu. 50. J

.J FSTICE8

,A SI) CONST A nr.ss.

AJ>Jlf'al.'i.

•

•

. .

.•

.

,\( ,,. l!r.' .-3. ch.

1 H:-l. In all cases an appeal shall lie under the rt•gulat10ns herein !!4. § i.. •» . _
. I f rom t I IC ju<l gment o f a justice
.
·1
.
.
f ti Id. l'h.~-'6.~ II,.
prescribed,
to t re circuit court o
ie 1~-.1..c·h_. R ,.,
• J lie f ore t h e 1us-2rn·.
•
II( \\ . \ ll .• ,a.l.
county, when t J ie amount 'in controversy on t I re triu
,·a.11o11.f\,~.
•
•
•
•
~.w.\'11.r,1~.
tice exceeds fifteen dollars, exclusive of interest and costs, or the2>l w. \'a. 11--t.
.
1 ves th e f reecl om o f a person, ti. ie vu 1·H IitI y o f a l aw or o f an 3:..>tl.
:io w. v«. :.>oo.
case mvo
ordinance> of any corporation, or the right of a corporation to l<•vy1h,_w. v». -tt~.
tolls or taxes.
~ w. v», -111.
Hi-!. Tbeappcal shall not h<> grant<•d
hv the justice unless, within At'ls lloli'.!-3, ch.
,
.J
~..!II.~ IIS.
ten days after the judgment is rendered or revived, bond with good 1K-.1, ,·h. K_
·
IHH:!. c~h. l·l.l.
security, to ho approved by the justice, inn penalty double the amount~''.'· \a.~,'!.
· fil P(1 wit
· 1 1 1•nun,
•
· ·
r. ~, '' · ' a. ·»0Of t l io ju d grnent, ts
wit• 1 1 com 1 ition
to t h e el rect that
the person proposing to appeal, will perform and satisfy any judgment which may be rendered against him by the circuit court on such
appeal, or if he does not wish to stay the execution on such [udgment, with condition to pay the costs on such appeal if the judgment
uppealed from be affirmed.
In case there be judgment Ix-fore the
justice against the plaintiff for costs only, and the plaintiff desires to
appeal, the bond shall be for costs, conditioned as aforesaid, and in
u penalty not exceeding one hundred dollars. In suits for the forciblo or unlawful r;, ntry upon land, or for the unlawful detention o
real estate, if judgment he rendered for recovery of possession of the
premises, either with or without dnrnagea for detention, the bond
shall be in a penalty double the amount of the damages, where [udzment has been rendered for damages for the detention, together with
an amount. sufficient, in the opinion of the justice, or of the circuit
court or judge thereof, when the appeal is granted by such court or
[urlgc, to cover one yenrs rent of the premises.
In such suits where
the judgment is not for damages for detention, the bond shall he in
n penalty equal to an amount sufficient, in the opluion of the justice,
or of the circuit court or judge thereof, when the uppeal is grnnted
by such court or judge, to cover one your's rent of the premises, and
an additional sum of not less than fifty nor more than" one hundred
dollars.
1G5. But if the appeal he upplled for on behalf of a district, town, Al'I" 1s11;,. p. 19
•
.
.\ .. b IXi':!-:t ch.
vi"J lage, county court o f a. county, or hourr l o f <'< lucation,
in their cor- ?.!t\. ~ t m
.
f
1
.
.
I
11
I
l
·
J
porate capacity or H uciary, tt s in
•<' grant('< wit 1011t such bond. JK!(I. · ,·ti. K
l (Hi. When there are two or more plnintitls or dcfenrkuus, any 011<· l~"t, \~:~-:i. <'h.
or more of them may appeal, without joining therein the otfwrs on li:<.'lt. .-11. x.
the same side.
ln7. After the nppeal is zranted
if the bond first
mentioned
in,\•"!!'
,.,,. ~ IR7·!-:l.
•·h.
i:,
'
...
.
1·•1
section one hundred and sixtv-Iour has heen ~ivPn. or if the appoul i~i: ,.1;. ·K.
~
·-·
·
:.'>< \\'. \"a. 184.
he allowed under section one hundred and sixty-flve. nil further proc<•<•(lings on the judgment of the justice shall couse, and if any oxecution, order of arrest or other process or order be 011 tstum lmg, it shall
ht! recul lr-d by the justice. and if tho appellnut he in custody h« shall
• 1
1
.\r•t s l!oei'!·'.l. c·l1.
l .>\' t l IS('
IUr~<'( •
'.!'JII. ~ J'J"!.
.• t'ice sua
l.
II , w1.•th•m t wen tJ c I uys f rom tl w < l ay on w I.11ch IKl:<I. d1. K
1(-.8
,, . 'I''-ue JUS

Digitized by

GO gle

4'4

.h-sTICF.8

AND

[CH. 50.

CoNRTARLES.

the appeal is perfected, make out and certify a complete transcript
from his docket of all the proceedings before him in the action, and
deliver or transmit the same, together with tlw said bond, the pleadings,
the depositions, and all original papers in the cause, to the clerk of the
circuit court of the county.
If the justice omit or refuse to do so,
he shall he fined not less than five nor more than one hundred dollars; and moreover shall, with the sureties on his official bond, be
liable to the party aggrieved for any loss or damage he may sustain
thereby.
.\~ls IR7'J·3, ch.
1 GB. The clerk of the circuit court, on receiving the said transcript
2'itl, i 1~.
1881, ch. 8.
and
papers, shall file the same and <locket the appeal.
Tho appeal
:!OW.Yu. 464.
24 W. Yu. IV>:!. may lw tried upon the pleadings made up in the justice's court, or
:!!) w.v». -tOt.
2H w.v«. 18-1.
the pleadings may he amended before or <luring the trial of the appeal, when substantinl justice will he promoted by the amendment.
lf the amendment he made during the trial of the appeal, and it be
made to appear to the satisfaction of the court that a continuance of the cause is necessary in conseq uencc of such amendment,
a continuance shnll be granted, and the court may in its discretion
require the party making the amendment to pay the costs of the continuanee,
If the sum in controversy exceeds twenty dollars and
either party so require, a jury of six shall selected and impaneled to
try the cause in like manner as other juries nre selected and' impaneled in said court. All lawful evidence produced in relation to
the matter in difference between the parties shall be heard, whether
such evidence was produced before the justice or not, and the cause
shall he determined without reference to th<• judgment of the justice,
on the principles of law and equity: P,·orid('(( Xo appeal shall be
.tried as aforesaid, on motion of the appellant, within less than three
months from the time the transcript and papers nre filed with t he
clerk of the circuit court, unless the appellee, his agent or attorney,
he present at the t imo of upplicatlon for the appoul, or ten days' notice of the trial has been given to the appelloo, his :t~cnt or attorney.
:t.1'.; 1 3· eh. 170. 1f the court, in any case, he of opinion thnt the bond filed is
tHNt. ,., .. K
insufficient, or the Hccurity doubtful, it.shull order a new bond in propl•r
form nnd with goocl security to bu given within a time specified in such
order, and if it he not given, or gooel cause shown why it mu .. not, the
same [udgment which was rendered hy tho justice, with the costs of the
nppenl, shnl I he entered in tho circuit court, without further trial.
ngninst the nppellunt and those who signed the bond if it IK• such
bond as is first named in section one hundred and sixty-four, nml
judgment against the appellant nnd sureties for the costs of tho apponl if it he not such bond.
·'''!.S.18?''(· .~· Iii.. 171. If, upon the trial in tho circuit court, the appellant do not
JHj_ .• 1.,11.-:itl.s
J
·r.it wus m
. hius f nvor, or r(•c I uce ..it I f
1~..
incn-uso the orhrinn l jm,g:nwnt
1
Win, rh. a!l.
•
I
f
I
11
.
11«1, ..i1. I(
it wns against him, mon- t inn IYP c,o nrs, t-xc· I usivro r .interest nnt l
eost«, tlw uppe llant, and those who sig,w<l the houd, shall pny the
eosts of tho uppou], Pxec•pt in e:uwH involvlnz tilt' title to i--1w<'ifit•
personal property, or tho possessiou of real vstutr-, the freedom of n

~t

Digitized by

Google

Cn. 50.]

.J t:-STlCF.S

475

A ND Co~ST AHLES.

person, the validity of a law or an ordinance of any corporation, or
the right of any corporation to levy tolls or taxes.
ln such cases
costs shall be awarded as the court deems right. Provided, That
the appellant shall in no case recover costs where the original judgment against him is reduced more than five dollars, unless before such
appeal is tried, he shall have tendered the appellee an amount equal
to or greater than the judgment recovered by him on the trial of such
appeal, together with all costs that may have accrued up to the time
of such tender.
l 'ii. When the judgment appealed from is against the appellant ,\,~t"187'..?-3, ch.
for any sum of money, and an equal or greater sum is found due by f;!i.1ct~\.
the appellant, judgment shall bl' rendered by the circuit court against
the appellant and those who signod the bond first named in section
one hundred and sixty-four, if such bond be given, for the sum due,
including interest and costs up to the time the appeal was taken, with
damages on the nggrcgatc at the rate· of ten per cent. per annum,
until payment, and the costs of the appeul ; but if the appeal bond
he for the payment of costs only, judgment shall be given against
the appellant and those who signed the bond for the costs of the
nppeal.
173. In all cases of appenl from a [ustlco to a circuit court, the .\f'.t.s llr.'.?-3, ch,
court (subject to t.he foregoing rules, when they are applicable) shall ~i.s ~;;'\.
make nny order during the progrcHs of the cause, which the principles
of law or equity may requlre ; and shall render judgment as tile right
shall appear, and proceed to enforce the same as other judgments of
the court are enforced without. remanding the cause ngain to the [ustiee. The [udguient in the circuit court, if in favor of the nppellee,
shall ht> against the appellant and those who signed the bond. Upon
th« trial of the uppeal, the amount due, if uny, from one party to the
other, shall he ascertained, und [udguient rendered therefor, in the
manner required by the one hundred t\rnl fourteenth section of this
chapter.
17 4. Appeals from the judgments of justices may he granted after Acts llr.'.!-a. ch.
the expiration of ten days, and within ninety clays after date of judg-f:~\!?\:t
ment, by the circuit court in term time, or the judge thereof in vaca- ~AA~,·-~'i~.11.i11.1.
tion, when the party seeking the appeal (except as provided in the~ ~u::!: ~!t
one hundred and sixty-fifth section) shall deliver to the court orjndge:t1 w.v». 13".!.
a proper bond with sufficient security thereto, as hereinafter prescribed,
and show hy his own oath, or otherwise, good cause for his not having taken such appeal within the said ten dnys.
175. In such case, if the appeal be granted, and the bond given Al'I~ lFti'.!·3. ct,.
hy the appellant he with condition that he will perform and satisfy f:h\.l~'9it
any judgment which may he rendered against him by the circuit
court on such appeal, the court or judge shall make and certify to
the justice an order directing him to cease all further proceedings in
the cause, and recall ull oxecuuons sn<l orders that may he outst.:tnding for the enforcement of the judgment, and transmit, without
delay, to the clerk of the said court a complete transcript from bis

Digitized by

Google

47'G

Ads tR'i':?·3,
:?:!II,§ t:iO.
1881. ch. H.

,\r.ts tRi'2·:-I.

f:i.¥,!~.\.
A~ts llr.'?·:l.
:?.-.!fl. S 13'.!.
1~1. di. 1:1.

L Ct1. 50.

.JUSTICES ASt> Co~STARrJ·~8.

docket of the proceedings in the action, together with all the original
papers relating thereto, hut if such bond he not givou, the court or
judge shall omit from such certificate> so much thereof as directs the
justice to recall all executions and orders outstanding for the enforcement of the judgment. Upon the receipt of such transcript and papers by the clerk: the cause shall he proceeded with in the circuit
court, as in other cases of appeals from the judgments of justices.
Appeals from the judgments of justices of the peace rendered since
the first <lay of· October, one thousand eight hundred and eighty,
where the same have not alrendy been taken shall he allowed by the
[ustice having possession of the docket of the justice who rendered
such judgment in like manner nnd with like eff ect, as if said appeal
had. been upplied for in due time to a justice who had the power to
grunt the same.
And if any such justice fail or refuse to grant such
appeal, when applied for, the same may he grunted hy the circuit
court of the county, or the judge thereof in mention.
Docket,
ch.
17fi. Every justice shall keep n hook denominated a "«lock<•t,·· to
l~ furnished at the expense of the county, and used exclusively for
entering therein his judicial proceedings.
ch,
177. He shall number the cases progressively on his docket, nnd
number the papers of each case to correspond. He shall keep all the
papers of each case together in one pnckage, and file them in the order they arc numbered.
eh.
178. He shall enter in his docket tho title of every action commenced heforc him, setting forth the names of tho partlos if known,
and showing which are plaintiffs and which nro tlefendunts, and
stating the time the act ion was com mencod, and the amount of
money or damages, or the specific property, which tho plnintitt do-

mands.
17!1. l 'nderncath the title of the action he shall enter, at the times
·
· 1 nrs. commencing
· t 1 H' procPC'( 1 mgs
·
t 1 l<')' occur! t 1 re fo 11 owing
par t icu
or
w.v«. r«i. overy dny with tho proper dntc: The date of the summons, t he time
it is returnable, und the IHUJll' of the person to whom it was cll•livcrt•tl
to he served.
The sumo particulars must he stated in relation to
any order of arrest or nttnchrucnt which may ll<' issued in the action:
and if an order pf arrest or nttnchmcnt bo issued. it shnll he stated
on whose nllhlnvit it was founded.
The return made on ~h<' pro('l'St-shnll he hrieflv noted.
Tho name of the ng<'nt, attorney or guunllan,
if nny. nppointcd on behalf of any party shall hr• stated. The filin~
hy either party of his compluint or unswer, if mndo ornlly, with u
brief notice of the contents thereof.
Evl'ry continuance. showing at
whose instance it is mndc. and to what time, unrl ut whose costs.
1f
mndo to n tlim•rent place, it shall ho so stutrxl. The bonds filed in
the net ion hy Pit her purty shall 1)(' noted, with tho names of the• partios who sig1w1l tho sumo. Tho rloeket shnll show which of t he partiC'8 is present nt the ti mo.
\\'IH'n a j II ry i!-1 clc•m:uulc"'l, lty which
pnrty such demand was mude, tho amount of mom•y deposited, and

Ac~,!' 18'i'.!·:t r-h,
1 :tt
2'.!6.
iio-1.~ ,·h.
Ji.
~"1

Digitized by

Google

en. t>o.J

,JUSTICES AND CoNSTAnLF.A.

the time> appointed for the> trinl by jury. The verdict of the jury
shall be set forth in fnll; and if the jury do not agree and nre discharged, the fact shal I he stated. The judgment of the justice shall
he stated, with +he items of the costs included therein. The execu=
tion and orders to sell issued, to whom delivered, to be executed, and
the returns made on any such process shall he shown by the entries
on the docket: nlso, every sum of money received by the justice in
the cause, showing when nnd hy whom paid.
If an appeal he taken,
by which party, the bond filed hy him, by whom signed and when
filed, nnd the notice of appeal, when filed. The bond filed for stay
of execution, by whom signed, and when flied and the stay granted.
The satisfaction of the judgment, and how and when satisfied.
Any
other proceedings in the action which the justice is by law directed
to enter in his docket, or may think it necessary or proper to enter.
1 RO. So far as the entries in the docket nre concerned, the form Acts 1AAt.ch.M.
shall he rogurded as immaterial. if tho truth he stated so as to he intelligible.
181. Every justice shall keep an alphnbetioal index to all judg- Act!! lR7'.!-3, ch.
ments entered in his docket.
In such index shall he inserted thelf!h~ ~:\.
names of the parties to each judgment. with n reference to the page
where the judgment is entered.
1 R2. Whenever it is necessary to prove a judgment or other pro- Acts 187'.!-3. ch.
. tiice, or any proress issue
.
d l lY hiim, or th e re- :?'JI\.*
l:i..,.R.
<'CC<1 .mg h ru 1 I w f ore n JllS
1~1. ch.
14 w. v«. 526'
t.nrn ti, ioroo f , or any on 1 er mnr 1 C' I 1y 1 nm
. .in a smit , ti. re < l oe k ct m
. w hi
nc l1 r,:.,g,
it is entered, or n transcript thereof, certified hy him or his successor 15 w. Va. 714·
in ofllce, or the person lawfully having the custody of such <locket,
shall he evidence of tho samo, hut shall not he conclusive, if errors
or omissions he shown.
1 HB. Every justice, upon the expiration of his term of office, shall Acts l87'.!-a. ch.
dcposite with his SUCCC'SHOf his ofllcial docket, as well 11.S those of his
l~\l.
predecessors, which may he in his custody, tog<>thl'r with all pnpers
relating to his judicial proceedings, in their proper files nnd order,
nnrl all statutes, hooks nnd pnpers received by him in his official
<':lptH•itJ: to he kept hy such successor as public records and proporty.
184. If tho offlco of a justice become vacnnt hy O<'nt.11, removal Al'ts llr.'.!-3. ch.
from the distrk-t , or ot horwiso, the dockets, pnperA, statutes and ~i\l;~i!.
hooks in the posseaslon of such justice, hy virtue of his office, shall
lx- delivered to the other [ustir-c. if there hP one, of tho district; otherwise, to the justice of nu adjoining district, to remain in his custody until such vncuncy is filler], and then to he delivered to the
person elected or appointed nnd qunlified to fill such vncnncy,
1 Hf~. Any [ustioe nhsenting himself from his district for a longer M.
period t hnn sixty days, shall doposit the dockets, papers, statutes and
hooks. which cnrnc to his hands hy virtue of his office, with t.he other
[ustice. if there he one, of the snme «listrict; ot horwise with the [ustice of an adjoining dist.rlct.
Tho <'otmty court of the county may,
however, at its option, declare Uw justice so absenting himself to
have thereby vncnted bis otllce,

r:i.* .

Digitized by

Google

418

[CH. 50.

.tr:~TICF.H A~n CoNSTAHI.'.EB.

Jtl.

186. Any person receiving, as aforcsnid, the dockets, papers, books
and statutes which were in the possession of any justice hy virtue of

his offlce shall, if requested, give a receipt therefor to the person delivering the same.
Act:< 1872-3. ch.
187. A justice with whom the dockets und papers of another are
~.§1!-!X.
lawfully deposited, during vacancy or nhsence, or as the successor of
IK81. ch. 8.
such other justice, is hereby authorized, while such docket and papers
remain lawfully in his custody, to issue execution or other process
in the suits entered thereon, give and certify transcripts thereof, and
do all such other acts in relation thereto as he may do in relation to
his own docket and papers. Hut executions and process so issued
shall be returned to the justice who may have the legal custody of
said docket, on the return day thereof.
18R. When two justices are elected or appointed in any district in
Id.
place of two others, the county court of the county shall declare as
to each of those going out of office, which of the two elected or nppointed shall he deemed his successor.
A1•t,- IHM. p, 19.
HW. The official dockets and papers of the justices acting within
lAAI. ch. H.
nny county of this State, under the laws of the State of Virginia,
shall be delivered by any person, other than a justice now in office,
tosome justice of the proper district or county; and the justice to
whom any such docket and papers are delivered as aforesaid, mny
give and certify transcripts thereof, issue executions and other process in the suits entered thereon, and do all such other nets in relation thereto, as he mny lawfully do in relation to his own official
<locket and papers.
( 'ertai» ,'(p,·<"ial
A,·t~

hi.

l!0-11.r>h.R.

pr,,c,.,.,l iug.'(.-1.

('uufrmpf,'(.

1 no. A justice may punish for eontornpt a person guilty of any of
the following acts, and in no other case:
First, Contemptuous or insolent behaviour towards such justice
while engug,•<1 in tho trial of a ease or in any other judicial proceeding.
,,.',·rn11d. Any breach of the 1)('nee, wilful disturbnnce, or indecent
conduct in the presence of such justice while so enga~ecl. or so near
as to obstruct or interrupt his proceedings.
Thin], Yiolence or threuts of violence to such justice, or any officer, juror, witness, or party going to, attending, or returning from
any judicial procce-Iing before such justice, in respect to anything
done or to lw done in the course of such proceeding.
Fourtl«. ~lishl'haviour of any otllcer in his otticial character in respcct to nny action or judicial proceeding had or pending before such
justice, or :rny pr<><.·es!'-, judgment, order or notice therein.
Fift!«. Disobedience or resistuuce hy nu ottlcer, juror, witness,
party, or other pl•rson to nny lawful proct•ss. judgment, or order of
such justico.
1 !11. An order of arrest may 1,p issued hy till' justice'. on which
tho person so guilty muy hl' tuken and hrought l,pfon_• him. or such
person may he taken in eustody hy any ollicer or person present upon

Digitized by

Google

Cu. 50.J

•

,JUSTJCEg

479

A:'oll> CosSTABLE8.

the oral order of the justice und held to answer for the contempt .
An opportunity must he given him to be heard in defence or explunation of his conduct; and the justice may thereupon discharge him,
or adjudge him guilty of the contempt, and punish him by fine or
imprisonment! or both.
The fine shall not exceed ten dollars, or the
imprisonment five days.
1 !l2. The conviction, specifying the particular circumstances of 111.
the offence and judgment thereon, must be entered by the justice in
his docket.
A warrant of commitment for the term of imprisonment adjudged, may be issued hy the justice, cornmundlng nu officer
to take the offender to the jail of the county. and the [niler to imprison him therein for the said term. The judgment muy include,
in addition to the fine, all costs in the. case, including costs of arresting and keeping in prison the offender.
I! .. lttoclmu·nt uf d,f,·nrl,n,t'H

111·up1·,·f.'J

011d cluim«.

l n:t If the plaintiff at the commencement of his action or at any .\('t,; ur.:!-3.
.
.
.its pent 1 ency an d b e f ore jut l g~1ent, s 1 10w to t lie sntis.
· :!:!tt,
, t3\I.
time
( 1 urmg
1~1. ch, 8.
1
faction of the justice by his own affidavit, or the affldavit or ntliduvits of one or more credible persons, made before uny person authorized to administer oaths, the nature of his claim. that it is just, the
amount thereof, as near us may he, and that the defendant, or any
of the defendants to the action, has committed, or is about to commit fraud in one or more of the particulars mentioned in the fortieth
section, or bas absconded, left his reaidence, or concealed himself
with intent to hinder or tltefrnud any creditor, or avoid service of process, or that the defendant or any of the defendants is a foreign corporation or a non-resident -of the State, such justice, having jurisdiction of the action, may, subject to the provisions contained in the
following section, issue an order of attachment against the personal
property and the claims of such defendant, to be directed and executed as prescribed in the seventeenth section of this chapter, and
returnable when executed, hut if not previously executed, in sixty
days from its date.
194. Hut such order shall not be issued until a bond with good ;i~1r.ft~3•
security, to he approved hy the justice, in a penalty double the 1881• ch. 8·
amount of the claim sworn to, is filed with the justice, with condition
that the plaintiff will pa)' to such defendant all damages he may
sustain by reason of the attachment should it thereafter appear that
it wus issued upon false suggestions, or without sufficient cause.
195. The order may be issued whether the action he founded on:;'.; 1fr't3•
contract or brought to recover damages for a wrong; and except where 1881. ch. 8.
the ground of attachmeut iR that the defendant is a foreign corporation, or a non-resident of the State, it may he issued though the
plaintiff's demand he not yet due and payable.
An uttachmcnt for
rent may also be issued by a justice under the provisions of section three of chapter one hundred und six of this code, returnnble
before himself, or another justice, where the rent claimed, exclusive

Digitized by

r-h.

ch.

ch.

Google

480

[Cu. 50.

.JUSTICES .\ ~1) CoNS'f AHI,ES.'

of interest, does not exceed three hundred dollars; and the same
proceedings m:1:y be bad on the return of said uttaclunent as arc prescribed in said section.
Acts 187:!-3, ch.
19G. The order shall command the otflcer who is to execute it, to
:?!36. § 14:!.
1881, ch. 8.
attach the personal property and cluims of the defendant n.gu.inst
whom it is issued, found within the county where the order is to be
executed, and not exempt by luw from execution or other process,
or so much of the said property and claims as will satisfy the plaintiff's demand, with interest and costs; which demand shull be stated
in the order in substance as it is in the affidavit so for as may lK•
necessary to ennhle the otllcer to ascertain the amount thereof.
Code v». p.647.
1U7. The officer who is to execute the order of attachment shall
.\ds lM'i'J-3, ch.
'
'
'
eee. i 1-1:-1.
within his county, deliver it copy thereof, lo any persons dcsiguuted
IM>ll, ch. R.
~
•
·
l~'"l.ch. 37.
by the plaintiff, or whom the olllccr believes to have in his posscs12 Umtt. 666.
.
sion,
or contro I , any persona l property of the l lef'endunt, or· to l Jc
liable to the said defeudunt, for any sum of money, and such delivcry shall be a sutllcient levy of the attuchmeut, in respect to the pl'l"son to whom such copy is delivered. The otllcer sliull note upon the
order of attachment, and state in his return, the exact time of every
such levy; and if he fail lo do so, shall, with his sureties and his ·
and their personal representatives, he liable to the same penalty, us
for failing to endorse on an execution, the day and hour it comes lo
his hands to be executed. The person to whom a copy of the order
of attachment is so delivered, and who is hereinafter called garniidtec
shall be liable to the plamtitf for whatever personal property of the
defendant, not exempt by law from executfon or other process, was
in his possession or control, when the levy was made, and whatever
amount be was then liable for, to the s:tid defendant, whether then
due und payable, or thereafter to become so, so far as nmy he nccessnry, to satisfy any judgment .the pluintitf may recover against such
defenduut, not exceeding the sum mentioned in the order of attachment, with interest u.1111 costs, including the costs of the uttaclmu-nt
proceedings. l'r11ri1htl. That if such garnishee shall return un unswer, that be or it, is not linhle to the defcndunt for any sum of
money, and hus not in his or its possession or control. any personal
property of the defendant, the pluintitt may, within uinety days from
the time of filing such answer, contest the truth of same, ufter huving first served notice upon the gurnishee, of bis purpose so to contest the truth of such answer, and if such notice he not served within such time, then an order shall he entered discbarging the said
garnishee,
.\,•.ts 1117'.!.:l, ch.
108. The gnrnishcc mny nt any time before judgment :~a inst him:!:!I\,~·~·
self, deliver the property or money for which he is also liable, or :1
1881, ch. 8.
sutHciency thereof, to the otllcer before the return of the order of attachment, or to the justice, and shall thereby IH: discharged from
liability.
,\l'l!< lM'i'J-3, ch.
1 UU. The otlleer, if the plain ti If iu writing, require him so to do,
~\.f us.
shull take into his custody and cure. any property Iouud subject to
l~l, ch. 8.

Digitized by

Google

CH. 50.]

481

,1USTICES .\SD CosSTAHLES.

the attachment, or a sutllciency thereof, and hold the same subject

to the order of. the justice, unless a bond with good security, to he

•

approved by the justice, in a penalty double the value of the property, be delivered to him, conditioned to the effect that the said property, or its value in money, will he forthcoming to answer any judgment in the action ugninst the def endunt.
If such bond be otf ered,
the oltleer shall cause nn nppruisement of the said property to be
made and signed by two disinterested householders of the neighborhood, sworn for the purpose, unless the value be agreed upon between the pluiutitf und the person theretofore in possession or control of said property.
Such bond, with the agreement or appraisement, shall be returned to the justice with the order of attachment.
And in all other cases where a bond is Jcquired by this chapter to
be taken in double the value of the property in question, the vulue
thereof shall he ascertained as provided in this section.
200. When any property delivered to the otllecr or taken into his~'."s1ITt3• ch.
custody as aforesaid is of a perishable nature or expensive to keep, 1881• cti: 8·
the justice may order sale to be made thereof us the ease shnll require.
The ottleer shall be allowed by the justice the reasonable expenses of executing the attachment and keeping and selling any
property under the same; which expenses shall he paid hy the plaintiff and taxed in the costs.
201. The one hundred and forty-fifth and one hundred and forty- Id.
sixth, one hundred und forty-seventh awl one hundred and fortyeighth sections of this chapter shall apply to orders of attachment as
well as to executions.
202. When the summons in the action has been served on the de- .\~ts 187'J·3, ch.
~.!II.~ J.17.
fendnnt against whom an order of uttnchmcnt is issued, or such rsn. ch. 1t.
.
h
l . .
l
188:.!, ch. I 43.
t 1 e f em l ant appears to answer t l ie action, t e p aintiff may proceec to
trial and judgment ngainst him as in other actions before justices.
But if the summons be not served on the said defendant, and he do
nut appear to answer the action, a second summons shall be issued
against him, returnable in not less than one nor more than two months
after its date, stating that property or claims of the said defendant
have been attached tu answer the plaintiff's demand ; aud the officer
to whom such second summons is delivered to be served, shall forthwith cause copies thereof to be posted at the front door of the court
house and two other public places in the county where the action is
pending, and shull serve the same on the said defendant, if he be
found in the county, on or before the return <lay thereof.
If such
second summons be returned served upon the said defendant, or he
:1PPCar to answer the plaintiff's action, or if it be returned that the
said def~ndant could not he found in the county, and that copies
were posted as aforesaid, the plaintiff may proceed to trial and judgment against such defendant. If judgment be rendered in favor of
such defendant the plaintiff shall he liahle for the costs of the order of attachment and proceedings under the same, us well as of the
princlpul suit.
The right to sue out an attachment may be contested, H w. Va. :..-'05.

Digitized by

Google

482

[CH. 50.

JUSTICF.S .-\XD CoN8TARLER~

and when the justice is of opinion that the facts stated in the affidavit
were not sufficient to authorize the issuing thereof, or: that tho ultldavit is otherwise insufficient, judgment shall he entered that the
attachment be quashed. 1f the defendant desire to controvert the
existence of the grounds for the attachment stated in the affidavit,
he may file a plea in abatement, den yin~ the existence of such grounds,
and the issue on such plea shall be tried hy a [ury, unless the same
be waived by the parties. The affirmative of such issue shall he with
the plaintiff; and if he fail to prove to the snt.isfaction of the jury or
justice, if a trial by jury he waived, the existence of the grounds
denied by the defendant, the verdict shall he for the defendant, and
judgment shall be entered that tho attuchmcnt be ahated ; but the
justice may grant new triuls us in other cases.
When the attachment
is properly sued out, and the case heard upon its merrts, if the justice he of opinion thut the claim of the plnintitl is not r-stuhlisherl,
final judgment sball be given for the defendant. In either ease the
defendant shall recover his costs, and there shall he an order for the
restoration to him of the attached etlucts.
If :rny such [udgruout ht~
rendered without the service of process on the defendant, ho or his
porsonal representative, if he he doud, muy appcnr and have the case
re-heard in the manner provided for in section one hundred and
twenty-four of this chapter; and nil the provisions of said section as
to the re-hearing therein provided for, shall he npplicuhlc to a re- ,
hearing under this section .
•,,.,,. IH'i'J-3. ch.
208. A judgment rendered by a justice where the summons has not
~.j
HS.
1881,ch. s.
been served on the defendant, and lie has not appeared to answer the
action, shall have the effect of a judgment only as to the property
and claims of such defendant. attached in the action. An l•xd·ution
issued on such judgment may he levied on the property subject to
the attachment, hut not on any other.
1~~:3. ch.
204. After the plaintiff has obtained [udgmr-nt, he mny proceed
1&11.ch. 8.
by execution as aforesaid, or the justice. on his npplicution, shall issue an order commanding the officer having in his custody any property subject to the attachment, or any officer to whom nn execuuon
might he directed by the said justice, to sell the property so subject,
or so much thereof as will he sufflcient, as provided for in section one
hundred and forty-one of this chapter.
But if the attnchruent and
judgment be for a debt not yet due, the property shall he sold on n
credit corresponding to the time it will become due, if such time IK"
longer than that mentioned in said seet.ion, and the notes of tho purchaser, with good security, henring interest from <fate, shall be tnkeu
on the purchase money.
Such sale shall tw made, tho order of snl(!
returned, and the proceeds acconnted for, pnid and applied ;lS if tho
property had heen taken under an execution issued on the said jt1ti~ment, and the officer and his sureties. his and their personal representatives, shall be linhle in respect thereto in tho sumo manner and
to the same extent. If any property or its value in ruonev, IK> not
forthcoming to answer the sak] judgment pursuant lo the hond men-

:!~'.;

Digitized by

Google

('n.

50. J

483

tionerl in the one hundred and ninety-ninth section, the pJalntitf may
bring an action in his own nmne on the bond a.g-ainst uny one or more
of the parties who signed the same, and recover therein, lil~sidPs.
costs, so much ns will he necessary to satisfy the said judgment, not
exceeding, however, the value of the property detained. If the property mentioned in the bond, or any part of it, he forthcoming, the
same or so much of it as will he suffiC'il'11t, shnll he sold under the
order of the [ustice and npplied as aforesaid. If the value in motwy
he pnid pursuant to the bond, such payment shall he to the justice,
and he applied by him to the satisfaction of the said [udguu-nt so far
us it is necessary, and the halunce paid to the said defendant, on
demnrul.

to5. On motion of the pluintit]', after he has obtained judgment .\,·1~ IHi:!-:-t. ,'.11.
as aforesaid ng:1inst the defendant, the justice shall make an order f!i.\{~\t
requiring any gnrnisht'P, at a time and plac« specified in suoh order,
to appe:1r ruul answer, under oath, l'<'spc>l'tingthe property and mom•y
with which he is churgouble ; and may also suhpn-na witnesses to testi fy concerning the same.
:!Oli. lf the garnishee nppenr and answer, he shall be examined, .,, .. h t1"'·J.:t, vh.
1 1
-1
.
· I 1 l l' f or, as provu. l C( l I })' t t re '.!".!II.
unner
oat 1 1, respecting
w 1 iutever 1 re .1s 1 1:1
1~1.~.-11.~ x..
one hundred and ninety-seventh section, and the justice shall also
hear any proper evidence concornlng the some.
1 f he fail to appear
at the time and place speciflcd in the said order, and it be shown that
n copy of such order was delivered to him ten days at least before
thnt time, the justice may either prcceed to hear proof respecting the
property and money with which the garnishe« is chargeable, or on
motion of the plnintifl, shall appoint another time, a111l cause nut less
than ten days· notice to he gin•n to the garnishee, that if he do not
appear and answer nt the time so last appointed, it will be taken as
au admission that he is liable for money sufficient to satisfy the judgment agµinst the defendant, with interest and costs, anti the cost of
the attachment.
If he fail to appear after such second notice, or if at
uuy time he appear and refuse to answer any proper question, and in
either case no sufficient cause he shown therefor, the justice may
proceed as if the garnishee bad admitted sufficient money to be in his
hands as aforesaid. l'rocid,,,I, That if the garnishel' reside in nuother county, he may al ways answer in writing, under oath, and such
answer, if sufficient, shall be equivalent to his personal appearance
and examination; or, if insufficient, he may he required, being first
served with a copy thereof, to answer, under oath, proper interrogatories in writing, approved and allowed by the justice; and his failure to file with the justice his answer to such interrogatories within
two weeks after he has been served with a copy thereof, shall, unless
good cause he shown for such fuilure, he taken as an udmission by
the garnishee that he has sufficient mo11ey in bis hands as aforesaid.
2117. If it appear by the aImis sion or cxnninution of the garnishee,
·
h
·
· I
.\"'" i~i:!-3. eh.
or ot h erwtse,
t at he 1s Iiah e for any money or property, whether en § 1a2.
sutflcient to satisfy the [udgement or not, the justice, if it be a sum lt!8I. ch. K

Digitized by

Google

48!

•Tus'rtcxs

.-\ct,. IKi:!-:J.
:!!ti.§ lfl.'I.
l&il. rh. 8.

. \t'II<

u,;~.:J.

~JII, ~ 151.
1~1.ch. 8.

,.
,\,·ti; IH'i'.!-:l.
:!'!ll. S IM.
ll'Qil. cit. tc.

AND

[CH. 50.

Co~ST.\lll,E8.

of money, shall order him to pay the same, or so much thereof as
will he sulllcieut, to the plaintiff, to he upplied first to the costs of
the attachment, and the balance to the discharge of the judgment
nguinst the defendunt ; but if it he shown that such sum of money is
not yet due and payable, the order shall be for the payment thereof
ut the time (to he stated in such order) when it will be due and payable.
lf it he property, and 11.ot money, for which the gurnishee is
liukle, the justice slmll aseertuin the vulue thereof. und order the
garnishee to pny the said value, or so much thereof as will he sufficient, to the pluiutitf', to he applied as aforesaid, on a certain day to
he specified in the order, unless the gnrnisht-e, on or before such day,
deliver the said property, or a sutllcleney thereof, to the otlieer designnted by the justice to receive it. If property he so delivered it
shall he sold as if taken on execution under an order of sale to lx~
made hy the justice, aud the proceeds applied as aforesaid .
ch.
:W~. Any order made by a justice pursuant to the preceding section, directing the payment of money hy a garnishee, ruay he enforced
by execution against the garnisheo in the name of the plaintiff, when
such money is or becomes due and payable; and an appeal shull lie
therefrom to the circuit court in like cases and manner as from other
judgments of justices .
ch.
211!1. If the garnishee fairly disclose whatever }I(' is liable for, and
comply with and perform the orders of the justice. he shall he allowed
his reasonable costs and cxpe11ses out of t.he money or property surrendered; and no prior lien on any money or property shall be impaired by attachment.
ch.
21 U. When there are several orders of attachment in the hands of
the same officer, ugainst the property and claims of the sume person,
they shall be levied in the order they were received. When several
attachments, issued hy ditfereut justices, arc levied on the same property or claims, or upon the sume garnishee, und proceedings hl\ taken
to determine which of them has priority of lien, neither of the [ustiee» issuing any one or more of such uttachuiouts shall have jurisdiction to determine such quest ions ; hut any other [ustice of the
county may, on the motion of any one or more of the plaintiffs, try
and determine the priorities of the severul attuclunents, und the proceeds shall he applied accordingly. But notice of such motion shall
he served on the other uttuching creditors, their agents or nttorm-ys,
at least five duys heforc the trial thereof; anti if such proe1..·etlings
he commenced hefore more than one justice, the justice before whom
said proceedings shall he first commenced, shall ulono huve [urisdiction in the case, unless he he disqualified, as provided in section fourteen of this chapter. If any property which has been attached l,e
cluimed by any person other than the tlt'fenthmt against whom the
order of uttnclunent was issul'tl, prol'l'(•1li11gs may ltl• had uccording
to the one hundred awl lifty-lirst und 1mt• hundred and fifty-secoud
sections.

Digitized by

Google

Cn. 50.J

485

.Jt.;STICESAND CossTA BLES.

11 /. r,tltt1c.f11l d,:t,,iw·r ,,,·
".'

rru]

rn.

,:,'lfat,·.

.\cb J~\.j. p.
l.'11111• v». p.llllH.

rr·:J,

:?11. If nny forcible or unlawful entry he made upon land, or if, 1;;'.;1
ch.
when the ch try was lawful, the tenant detain possession of land after::}:,'.{ 7:._;_
his right has expired, without the consent of him who is entitled to~·~·;~;,~!~~~)~:
the possession, the party so turned out of the possession, no matter ~ lf':"1: •.
what right or title he had thereto, or the party against. whom such~,,:'.~'
.,; ;in
:l \\.
\ n. ,11.
possessiou is unluwfullv detained, mav commence suit to obtain 1>os- H w. Vn. :oi.
•
'1
:!I w.v«. :.'77.
session of the land anti duuiugcs for its detention, within two years :.'3 w. Ya. 1:10.
.
'
:!I W. Vu, f,m.
nfter the cause of action accrues, before nuyf justice of the countv :ll.1 w, v«. :!7.
. w I11c
. h sue· h l um l or t l ie grcau~r part t tiereo .1s situatec
.
l.
as
w. Vu. :!:itJ,
in
34\\'. VnA9. 31;.'>.
:!l:!. At the instance of the party so turned out of possession, as ·'·:~t. lHIH. ,1:,.1t.
.
.
. till I aw f u II y cle t umer
. 1 as a f oresuu· l, thc JUS·
against
w I 10m possession
1s
~ll:i,-·3·
15. di. :::.:o.
tice shnll issue a summons commanding the olllcer to summon the::~:::::: tir...
defendant to appear before the SUH} justice, at a time nnd place~
!.~.Ii.
therein specified, to answer the action of the plaintiff for unlawfully ~~~'ii,1~·a. iU8.
withhol<liug from the plaintiff the premises in question (describing
them) und damuges for their detention (if any arc claimed).
The
place at which the defendant is to appear must he within the county,
und the time must he not less than three nor more than ten days
from the delivers of the summons to the otlieer to he served.
No
such summons shall be quashed or held insufficient for any defect in
the description of the premises therein mentioned, if tho description
he such as to enable a person of common understanding to know
what is intended thereby.
And if in the opinion of the justice such
description is not sutllcieut under the provisions of this section, the
plnintitl' may amend the summons so as to make the description sufficient.
213. The summons must he directed, served, and returned as oth- .\d,- ,~..i. p. H.
.
1 l .
.
11:~'!l. ch. 1:1.
er summonses issue; ,y justices.
214. On the return of the summons served, the justice shnllx .. t s 1Sf>1. 1,. it
.
(1'81. c•h. H.
proceec l t o t ry ti ie cnse, un I ess goo. 1 cause l ie s liowu f or a conunuunce. 8 w.v«. ::oi<.
Either party shall he entitled to a trial by six jurors, if demanded, '.!f,W.\'u IDI
nuder the same regulations which arc prescribed in relation to such
trials in other cases before justices, except that the jury shall be
sworn well and truly to try whether the defendant unlawfully withholds the premises in controversy from the plaintitr, and (if damages
are claimed for the detention) to nsscss the pluintltt's damages for
being so kept out of possession.
~15. If the verdict of the jur"·
or the flndinz
of the [usticc when,\•'.'"
l!!IH. I'· 1-1.
J '
e,
187:!-3, ch. :.!:.!6,
the case is tried without n [ury, be thnt the defendant unlawfully~'"·
l!<SI. 1'11. 8.
withholds the premises in controversy, or any part thereof (deserib- 1:.! '".· ,·.a. ~1~.
·mg t h e part) f rom t h e P l aintif]',
• ·
.
judgment shall he rendered in favor 11'1 \\ • \ a. 1tlh,
of the plaintiff that be recover possession of the premises, or of the
part so described, and his costs.
If damages are assessed by the
justice or jury in favor of the plaintiff, the same shall also he included in the judgment, and the justice, when required by the
plaintiff, shall issue an execution commanding the officer to whom it
is directed to deliver possession of the 1~rcmiscs1 or such part thereof,

t~~-

0

w

~n::::

Digitized by

Google

486

[Cn. 50.

,Jt;STlCF.S ASH Co~STABI.ES.

to the pluintitl', und remove the defcndnnt and his goods therefrom,
and collect the said dumages and costs out of the personal property
of the defendant. Such execution shall he returnable within sixty
days from its date, nnd us to the delivery of possession and removal
of the tenant and his goods, it shall be executed within five days
from the time it comes into the hands of the orlleer,
j~~j: /.~~·~."· ta. 21 tL If the verdict of the jury, or the finding of the justice, when
the cnse is tried without a jury, he for the defendant, he shall have
judgment and execution for his costs.
i~',\~~->-18." tr,. 21 T, The judgment under either of the two preceding sections,
shall not bar any subsequent action of ejcctruent hrought hy either
party .
.\"'" 1Ht>1. p. l!i.
218. The justice .mny set aside the verdict of the jury, or his own
l)"l;I. c•h. H.
Jl'II'!·!. , •. , r, Jt:'J.
judgment, and grunt a new trial as in other cases; and the laws relating to civil actions and proceedings before justices, so far ns they
arc applicable and consistent with the seven preceding sections, shall
regulate the actions provided for in those sections, and the process
to he issued or proceedings had in such uctions.
Appeals shall lie
to the circuit court from the judgment of justices in such actions
within the same time as in other cases, upon the party desiring to
appeal, giving such bond us is required by the one hundred and
sixty-fourth section, and such appeal shall he subject to the same
regulations as in other cases in so far as such rogulations arc not
changed as to such appeal by the provisions of this section.
Upon
the trial of such appeal in the circuit court, if the verdict of a jury,
or the finding of the court when the case is tried without a jury, he that
the defendant before the justice unlawfully withholds the premises
in controversy, or any part thereof (describing the part.) from the
plaintiff before the justice, such verdict shall further assess the
amount of such plaintiff's damages, if tiny, for being kept out of possession of the premises unlawfully withheld, accruing up to the date
of the verdict, or if the appeal is tried hy the court in lieu of a jury,
the court shall find the amount of such damage, if any, accruing up
up to the date of its judgment, and judgment shall be rendered in
favor of such plaintiff, where he is the appellant, that he recover
possession of the premises, or of the part so described, together with
Much damages where any arc nssessed hy the jury in their verdict, or
found by the court, with interest thereon from the date of the verdiet or from the dute of the judgment where the case is tried hy the
court in lien of u jury, and his costs hoth before the justice und in
the circuit court.
The judgment in till' circuit court. if in favor of
the nppellec, and such uppellee has been the defendant before the
justice, shall be against tho appellant and those who signed the uppoul bond, Tho judgment in the circuit court, if in favor of the uppelloe, and such appollee has been till' plnintitf before the justice,
shall he n~ainst the nppellnnt for possession of the premises und
nguinst the nppellnut and those who signed the appeal bond for the
dumnges nssessod by tho jury in their verdict, or found by the court,

Digitized by

Google

CH. 50]

,Jt'STICE8

AND

487

CosSTARI.ES.

with interest thereon as aforesaid nod said costs.
~~xecutions may
issue separately for possession of the premises and for such damages
and costs, or they may be incl uded in the same execution, at the
option of the party in whose favor the judgment bas been rendered.
l'rocruli11gs IJ,:f,,r,• Jusfit•t•x on lu1utlf ,~( the Stat,·.
21 H. A justice shall have [urisdiction of the followinz orlences o)ol•
v .. ,!"~ 1~.!-3.
ch,
ltlO
committed in this county, or on nny river or creek adjoining thereto: i;~i.ch. i-1.
~
.
IM8:!. t•h. Ha.
First, In cases of assault and battery, unless the offence was com-1~111.,·h. lit.
mitted on a sheriff or other officer of justice, or riotously or with intent to commit a felony, and no compromise with the party injured
shall cff ect or prevent the trial of such offence by the justice.
S,,cond. In cases of trespass to personal property; and if u defendant be convicted, either upon bis own confession or upon a trial by
the justice, with or without a jury, for either of the offences hereinbefore mentioned, he shall Le fined not less than five dollars, nor
more thnn fifty dollars.
Thlrd, In cases for the violation of section nineteen of chapter
one hundred and forty-nine of this code; and upon the conviction of
the defendant for n violation of any of the provisions of said section,
he shall be fined not less than five nor more than fifty dollars, and
may, at the discretion of the justice or jury trying the case, be imprisoned in the county jail not exceeding ten days.
Fourth, In cases of adultery and fornication, and any other case
where tho punishment is limited to a fine not exceeding ten dollars,
or to imprisonment not more than ten days.
But in cases of conviction for adultery or fornication the defendnnt shall he tined twenty
dollars.
Pi/th. In cases of petit larceny, and if the defendant be convicted
of such offence, either upon his own confession or upon the trial by
the justice, with or without n jury, he shall he fined not less than
ten dollars nor more than thirty dollars, and may, at the discretion
of the justice or jury trying the case, be imprisoned in the county
jail not exceeding thirty days.
And if the convict he a male person, unless he shall pay said fine and the costs of the prosecution,
he may during the term of his imprisonment he compelled to work
on the puhlic roads or streets nt the rate of one dollar per day until
the said fine and the costs of the prosecution are paid; and if necossnry a ball and chain shall he attached to his person.
Si.rt/,. ln cases for the violation of section seven of chapter one
hundred and forty-eight of this code; and upon the conviction of the
defendant .for n violation of any of the provisions of said section, he
shall be punished as provided in snid section.
S,-rrnt/1. ln cases for the violation of sections nine and ten of chapter fifty-six of this code; and upon the conviction of the defenduut
for the violation of any of the provisions of said sections, he shall
he punished as therein provided.
220. The circuit court for the county wherein the offence was corn"
.\••1 ~ ll*ll.1'11.H.
mitted of which a justice has jurisdiction, shall have concurrent 1m.!.e11. Ha.
L'

Digitized by

Google

,J u~TJCEs

488

[l"'II. 50.

ANI> Co~sT Am.Es.

original [urisdiction of such offence, except when imprisonment iH imposed for contempt, pursuant to the one hundred and ninety-first section. Where any pC'rson has heen convicted in the municipal or police
court of any incorporated town or city such conviction shall be> a bar to

any criminal proceeding before a justice for the> same otf ence.
221. The proceeding before the justice shall he by warrant of arrest
J~t. «h. I!.
in the name of tho State, except that when an offence 'of which the
justice hus jurisdiction is committed in his preRtmcP, or in that of n
constable, either of them may forthwith apprehend the otf ender or
cause him to he apprehended, and in such case tho otlender may he
tried before the justice and dealt with according to law, without such
warrant.
1,1.
222. If the justice have jurisdiction, the warrant of arrest may he
directed to any constable in the county in which the orlence was committed, and the olllcor to whom it h~ directed may execute the same
anywhere within his county, or on uny river or creek adjoining thereto.
It may he directed to the eonstnhle hy name or official dosiguutton.
.\rt,.. IR'i'.!-3. rh
2~:t The wnrrnnt of arrest. shall he issued only on the> informa:!"_'ti, ~ Ill"!.
l>Oll, ,·h. I<.
tion, under oath, of sorno credible person. 1 t shall describe the offence allc•~('<l to have been committed, as heretofore required in such
cases by lnw, and command the otllcer forthwith to apprehend the
accused and hring him before the j ust.ice, to he dealt with according
to law.
ltl.
224. Tho j ustice may also, hy endorsement on the warrant or hy
subprena, direct witnesses to hl' summoned, and may proceed u~ninst.
as for contempt if tlu-v fail or refuso to attend or testifv.
"'°'" 11!7'.!·:l. ··h.them
•
~
:!!fl.~ 111.1.
22f>. On the npponrnnce of tho uccu-a-d, the justice may proceed to
i>0<1. vh. i<.
l
l
I
.
f
.
.
.f
try tie case: mt I<' may ~rant conuuunnces rom tuno to time.
1
the circumstances of tho case require it. If n continunncc ht• J..!rn.ntPcl
at tho instance of tho aceused, the justice. if he sees fit, may require
him to enter into a recognizance, with surety deemed sutlk-ient, conditioned for his nppeurance at the time nml plucv appointed for trial,
to answer for the otl'enc« with which he is churged, and if s11C'h rocognizance he' not given, may commit him to prison until tho time
appointed for trial, hut. such imprisonment shall not PXcc•Pcl five tlnys.
The accused, if such contiuunnce he not. nt his instance, shall ht• discharged from custody on his own rc•('ogniz:m<·<•, or without n f<'<'<•~niznnce. ns t ho just i<•t• shall <lc•t•m prop,·r.
The just ict• may render
judgment on nny rc•t·ogniz:rnt•t• tnkr-u hy him pursuant to this !-H'<'tion.
ltl.
:!)( \\'. \':1. :r.:,.
2~1i. When t ho penalty nuthorized h.,· law is :, fine <'Xl'( <•1linl,! five
dollars, or imprisonment, t.he accused shall he c·ntitll'<l to. n trial hy
twelve jurors, or n l(•ss uurnlx-r if domnndcd. under t he n'gui:ltionH
rC'speeting such trials in eivil suits IK•fort• justk-es : oxr-ept thnt no
peremptory <'hall<'lll,!<' shull lx- nllowr1l to tho :-:.tat<'. and that tlu- jury
shall lw sworn wr-ll and truly to trv the c:uw li(•twn•u tho :-:.tnt.(• nncl
t hv nc<·ww1l, n111l to gin• a true verdict :wcorclinl-!to tile' ev irlcm-e.
If
thl' jury fi111l t he :ic•1·w-1c·cl guilt.,·. tllC'_Y slmll, !-.Ul1j<'d to tlw.limitntions
presc·rih<·cl in l-lt•t•tion two hu111lrPil ancl ni1wlt.·c·n uf thil-4 eh:,ptc,r, a."l'<'r-

;;ti 1~_-:1.

r-h.

1

Digitized by

Google

Un.

50.J

.ju~TICE8

489

ASJ) Vos8TARI.E8.

tain the fine and term of imprisonment, if any, not exceeding ten
days, unless the same be fixed hy law.
227. Whether the trial is hy~ jury~ or not, if the judgment
he ngnirn,t
A,·1" IR'i'.!-:t ch,
~·
.,
:!'.! 1. !i 16-t.
the accused, it shall he for the costs of the proceeding in addition to 1~1. di. H.
the fine and term of imprisonment imposed, and ~hen the accused is
sentenced to imprisonment, whether a fine he also imposed or not, or
is imprisoned for non-payment of a fine and costs, the jailer's foes
shall he included in the costs. Kxecut.ion, to be collected out of the
personal property of the nccused, muy be issued on such [udgrnr-nt
for fine and costs: or for the costs alone, if the judgment he for imprisonment and costs without fine. FC'e hills may he issued against
the accused for costs incurred at his instance. including the jailer's
foes, under the same regulations and with like effect as in civil suits.
228. When a fine is imposed, whether with or without imprison- td.
ment, and whether execution he issued under the preceding section
or not. the justice, if be sec fit, mny adjudge the offender to he imprisoned until such fine and all the costs are pnirl, hut not exceeding
ten days for that cause; and if fine and imprisonment be ,imposed,
the offender may he imprisoned for not exceeding ten days on account.
of the non-payment of tho fine and costs, in addition to the term of
imprisonment imposed for the offence.
When the offender is to he
imprisoned it shall he in the county jail unless otherwise provided
by law, under a warrant of commitment to he issued by the justice.
And if he is not in custody, the justice may issue a warrant for his
nrrest and commitment in such jail.
2:W. All fines which nccruo to the State, collected or paid in anv Acts 1m-:l. ch.
I us.,;.
1•
. cunpter
l>e f ore a justrce.
.
.
.
1·inte I y he~ ~t
proceer 1 .mg urn l er t I 11s
s h n 11 unmee
1HH1 ,·11.
11••
·
·
· ·
pall· 1 1 ,y t 1 re justice
recervmg
t 1 ie same to t. 1 re s 1 iorr·fr o r· t I H'- county. ISM •. ••11· , ....
If any justice fail therein, he shall forfeit twenty dollars for every
such orlcncc. The sheritf shall enter the sums so paid to the credit
of an uccount to ·l)(~ kept by him under the heading '1ge1wral school
Innrl. ·· .All claims hy justices, constables, jailers anti others, for
fees due them in the like proceedings in the county, where the accused is acquitted or when such fcrs could not ho collected on exeeution or fee hills, hy the exercise of proper diligence, shnll he
audited and examined hy the county courts, and if found correct, tho
court. shall cause orders to ho issued therefor on the sheriff, to he
pnid out of such fund, if sutllciont, and charged to said account.
The sheriff, during the month of .lununry or Fehrunry annually, shall
render under oath to the auditor a true stntcmont of tho said account,
and pay into the treasury of the Stnte the net proceeds of tho snul
firws as exhibited hy the said account, to hr nppropriatcd ns directed
hy the fifth section of article twelve of the constitution. If nny slwriff
fail heroin, he shall forfeit twenty dollurs, nnd moreover, he nnd his
su reties, his nnd thei r persona l n-preson tat i vr-s, shul I he I inhle to the
State in the same manner and tot ho sume oxtont as for other moneys
in his hunds due the Stntt.~. E,·Ny justice shall, annually, in the
month of .lnnunry, certify to t he elerk of tho eounty court of his
1

1•

Digitized by

Google

490

• h'8Tlf'Ef..

[Cu. 5o .

AND CoNi,;T.:\UU:s.

county, a list of all fines imposed hy him during the preceding year,
and stating therein such as have been paid to him, and such us remain uncollected hy him; and he shall also state in such list for
which of such fines (if any) executions hnve not heen returned. or returned unsutisfled, \nd f~r which (if uny) executions have l~•(m returned satisfied and the llloney not paid to him, with tlu- name of the
olflcer or 1wrson so foiling to return or pa)\ and such as have lu-cn
paid hy him to the shoritt, and if lu- foil to do so, he shall lw fined
not less than fifty nor more than one hundred dollars, and the clerk
of every county court shall. upon rt'Cl!i\·ing such certificate of the
justice, certify to the auditor tho amount of money appenrlng thereby
to have been paid to the shcriff ; and if he fail to do so: be shall hl'
fined not l('SS than twenty nor more than fifty dollars.
·
·'"'" IR'i'.!-3. •·ti.
2:w.
Kvery
person
sentenced
to
imprisonment
under
this
chapter,
:!'~'ti. j 100.
by the judgment of a justice, or to the payment of a fine of ten dol~ w.,·11. AA. lars or more (mid in no case shall a jud rment for a fine of less than
1:i S. E. H. :ii:i.
ten dollars he given hy a justice if the defendant, his agent or attorney, object thereto) shall be allowed an appeal to the circuit court of
the county, upon entering into a recoguizauce before the justice, with
surety deemed suftlcient, to appear before tho said court on the first
day of the next term thereof, to answer for the offence wherewith
he is charged, and not depart thence without learn of till' court. If
such appeal he taken, the warrant of arrest (if there he any), the
transcript of the judgment, the recognizance and other papers of the
case shull be forthwith delivered hy the justice to the clerk of the
court, und tho court shall proceed to try the case as upon indictuu-nt
or presentment, and render such judgment without. remuuding the
case, as the law and the evidence may require. If the [udgmeut he
ngninst the uccusod, it sbnll include the costs incurred in till' procoedings before the justice as well us in the said court, including a
Ice of ten dollars to the prosecut ing nttorney, and the juik-rs ft•(•s, if
any.

:::t::'i'.·. 7~r,.

l'roc1·1·di11!1'~ l11fun' Ju~tfr,·s fur
.\,·I~ l~l.c•h.M.
11'1.'l:,.d,. :~I.

ri1,l11tio11

'!l 11nli11,1111·1.,;,

:!m. Unless otherwise s1weially provided, u [ustlco shall have jurisdiction of evPry violation of any lawful ordinnuce, of the council of
n town or vi llugv : hut not in a <·ity in his <·ounty~ if till' punishment
therefor. h(• limited hy law or ordinnm-o, to fine not eXC'l'Pcliul,! ten
dollars or imprisonment not c.•x(•c•t>cling h•11 days, or to fine not (•x1•c.•c•clinl,! ten dollars and imprisonment not C'Xet.•t•clin~ kn cbys. II<' shul]
have power to issuv exvcutions for all Ilnos, ponultios and r·osb. imposed
by him, under this sl'elion. or he may require t lu- innnediute pnyuu-nt
thereof, and in defuult of such puv nu-nt. ho may commit the party in
default to till' jail of the county. in which such town or ,·illal,!P is
situutod, or other piH<'P of imprisonment in such corporation. if t lu-rv
hr one, until t lu- li11t• and (•osts shall he• puid : or. in cnsv till' fine iuiprnwd :111cl t lu- ,·ost. he· not promptly pnid, t ln- just ice nrny s(•ntt•nt•t•
tho party in dPf:11111. to work out till' :1111011111 of till' li1u• nml tilt' <·o:,,l
under the «lirl'd ion, vontrol and c·11stocly of tlH' :-c.•rge:1111. or otht-r

Digitized by

Google

Cn. 50.J

4!-ll

.JUSTICES AND CONSTABLE~.

proper officer of such town or village, on the public streets or such
town or village at the rate of seventy-five cents a day. In case the
party in default ·shall fall or refuse to do the work so required of
him, the amount shall be doubled, and the party shall he confined in
the jail of the county in which such town or village is situated, or
other pince of imprisonment in such corporation, if there be one, until the amount of the fine so doubled nnd the cost, shall be paid, or
the party in default shall signify his willingness to <lo the work required of him. l'r()rid"'I, That the term of imprisonment in such
cuses shall not exceed thirty days.
During the time that any pnrty
fined, as aforesaid, shall he engaged in so working out the amount of
the fine and cost imposed upon him, he shall he deemed in the custody of the officer, and shall he boarded at the expense of such
corporation, hut at a cost not to exceed fifty cents a day.
2:-tt The proceeding in such case shall be by summons in the cor- Acts
porate name of the town or village, as plaintiff, and shall conform,so
for as practicable. to the rcgulntions respecting civil actions before
justices.
Hut the justice, for ~ood cause shown, may, by endorse·
ment on the summons, order the person churgod with such violation
to he forthwith apprehended and brought before him to answer
therefor.
2mt The two hundred and twenty-fifth and following sectio1~s to I<l.
the two hundred and twenty-eighth, inclusive, of this chapter, shall
apply to such proceeding.
When the suit is for the violation of an
ordinance of n town or villngo, the process therein may he directed
to the sergeant or constable of the said town or village, if there be
such otllcer, and may be executed by him within the county.

IR8i.ch.8.

C'u11stobl1•,,; «iu} nffic1•r.~ ffrpufrd to scree procr.~.,; (Hid orilers,

~:J--l. The constable or other officer shall attend all trials in his dis- Acts 1872·:I.
.
. w I no
. I1 h· e may lrave serverI process, anr I:!.:!ti.
i 156·s,
trict,
town, or vt·11 age, m
ttSMI,("'.
preserve order and enforce the lawful commands of the justice <luring
the same.
235. lt shall he the duty of such officer, on the receipt of any I<l.
summons, order, execution, or other process issued by n justice, except a suhpoenn, to note thereon the time of receiving the same; to
serve and execute the same, subprenns included, according to the command thereof and the provisions of law; to make true return thereof
to the proper justice on the return day, stating in such return the
time nnd manner of executing the snrue, or why it was not executed;
to subscribe his name to such return, and to pay all money received
hy him in his official capacity to the justice before whom the suit or
proceeding is pending.
23G. In serving and executing the orders and process issued by a Act!'! tR72-3.
justice, the officer may exercise the same authority over persons and
78.
property, as it would he lawful for a sheritf to exercise under like orders or process from the circuit court.
Acts 1Ri'.!·3.
,,.,,.SI~
ta7. Kvery officer who shall neglect or refuse to serve or execute i8.~·1, c~. s.

r:li\,'t)

Digitized by

ch.

ch.

ch.

Google

Punt.to

~O'l'AIUF.S

AND

[CH. 51.

Co~rn1ss10:s-ER8.

:!"~'t\.

l>r.:!-!l,
S If~.
IH.'11.di. 8.

any lawful process or order in his hands, issued hy a justice, when in
his power to do so, or shall make a false return thereon, or shall fail
to return the same on the return day thereof, or shnll foil to perform
any duty which he is required hy law to perform in relation· thereto,
shall, if there be no other fine or punishment imposed therefor, he
fined not exceeding fifty dollars for every such ottonce, and moreever, he nnd his sureties, or any one or more of them, and the personal reproscutativcs of such of them :Ls are (lead: shall he liable to
the person injured thereby to the extent of such injury, with interest
and ten per cent. damages.
ch,
2a8. Every constable going out of oflico may finish the business in
his hands remaining unfinished, in the snme manner as if bis term
had not expired; hut if he declines to do so, be shall deliver t.o his
successor all process and orders in his hands, with his proceedings
thereon endorsed, and also all property levied on or attached and
remaining unsold, and take such successor's receipt therefor, including in dirlercnt receipts the process and orders from different justices,
and shall return such receipts respectively to the proper justices, who
shall enter the same on their dockets anrl cnrefu lly preserve the
originals.
Upon the denth of a constable, the same duty shall devolye on his personul reprcscntntives.
Cr,11 .«t ructiou of Ct'rf11i11 niori]« .

.\(·t~ i>r.:?-:t

,·h.

,\t'ts

::;;1.,·l1. ~-

2:rn. The word "jnstiee .. or : -justices" when used in this chapter
shull he construed us if immcdiutely followed hy t.lu: words "of tho
peace.
CIL\PTEH LT.
\.\111•·11<1,·,I u rul r,·-•·11:1<'.! .. ,I.

~CJT,\RIRS

Pl'HL[('

S•:('.

I. ;-.'nlari,·:- in ofli,•p 111 h"ld
:! .. \ pp11i11t111,•11I of llnlari•·~.

,:~ ( .... w,·r~ .. f 11nlati .. ,..
fl.\.
7. (•,lf;oo•f of prott•,,.f,. ,\t• ..

" I

t.,, .
111.

I

1•

rP~t·r\·a

,·

lnll

,.,, ,,..r....

f
tl

:I.•

,
·
(IO :lrJa

,\~ll
until

s,,,_ .. ,,.,~

c1nDIISSIO'.'it-:ns

I

r•·mo,·,,,I.

!!<'-'?. <'h. ~l.,

OCT IIF

nn:

ST.\T}:.

Sr.C'.

II. ,\ppoi11t1111•nt.
,\:,• .. of P111111111,;,i111u•r, nut
of 1111' Sl:il•·.

I:;::I"\

I

.· ldt•II•'••.
r

t'f•n

r 1-.,I

:l)Jf

I

I

l'ow··r,. .. r r- ,,111,11i,--in11,·r~
1)· 1 'I'hvir ··•·:11- :11,d ,·,.r1it1•·,ir,·,.
I;). I
l•i. 1··,.,.,. '" h,· pu id liv nntari,·, 1111,I ,._... urun-.
~jUJl'"r~ fd 111,• ,,;·-·rt·(an

11f :-,,.1:tl••

·
.,y,,,,,,.i,·x i11 1~/Jirr ,,, t•11nti1111,·-!lor,,n111r lo ''JIJl"iul, ,·t<-.
M1.,1~1s·!.,·li~J.
1. The notaries now in otlleo shall continue thorein until removed
in t he manner prPs(•rili"cl hy law.
·,,,1,. ·::i. I' r.r:,.
:!. Th« gon•rnor shall nppoint :111<1 commission so many notarir-s
1
A,·r~ t!-i;·~.• -1,.·),. in this :,O:tat<' and for such counties ns lw may dt'<'lll proiwr, who shall
hold t heir otllco n•sp<'t'ti\'(•ly during good hchn vior. hut may hp rvmoved, or their oltic·p vncatcd pursuant tn t hr third und tenth SP<'·
tions of chuptvr seven, or the twenty-first n111l twcntv-socoml sect ions
of chapter ten of this r-odo.
Tl11·ir 111,,,·,,r.".
c·,.,1,. v». p-:-:.rr. ~;. WIIPn unv ont h 111:1y lawfullv Ii<' administered. or nlllduvit or
.,, .. r, l~-..' . ..i, ':'I'. 1lt-posit ion takt:n, within
unv c·om~ty, it 111:1y h(• do11,· lr_y :t notary
thereof', unless otherwise expressly provided hy luw.

Digitized by

Google

CH. 90.]

699

in!CUIEN1'.

unless it also appear that the defendant has held or detained the
possession for three years before the date of the summons,. the verdict shall be for the plaintiff for the said premises, or such part
thereof as may be found to have been so held or detained. When
part only of the premises is found for the plaintiff, the verdict shall
describe the part so found; in such cases, judgment shall be for the
plaintiff.
If the verdict he for the defendant as to the whole, [udgment shall be for him.
4. No such judgment shall bar any action of trespass or ejectment Acts tk82, ch. a
between the same parties, nor shall any such verdict be conclusive, 12 uratt. -li'.!.
in any such future action, of the facts therein found.

CHAPTER

XC.

OP TUE ACTION OF EJECT)IF.ST.
St:c.
/ Wlwn and whvro a<'tion or Pj1•1•t11lt'nt
to ~ or v,·rdict nnd j11d!{m1•nt.
muy lw brought: of th» purtiois und 23
,,9
l
pro1•1·1•,lir11r,;.
I Wh11t to b« ·prov,•tl nt tlw tritll: verdict
How rr-nts and profits, ,\:c .. r<',·ov1•rt>t.l.
\. nut! judzrnvur:
how rvndervd in r,•r·
\ tuin eases.
.\tlv,•r:-ury po""''s,<ion detlned in e,•rtnin
ar,
~ Effl'1°t or
. judgment in ,•jt>clmPnt.
eH.~PS.
to
37.
20 I
38.
Ren!
actions
uboltshed.
to \. J<:quitahl" d••f<'IICt'I<.
SEC.

I
to
13.
H
to
18.
19.

r

~- l
:~. f

For former law
on the subject

or this chapter.
s,... Coot> \'11.
1860.ch.136. For
r..Cn·

further
PllCf•S,

st_a.p

~t•e-

tions.

2'.l.\

Wl1t>11 owl where it

he lu-, lJroug/,t, and of t/u., parties mul proceedi11g.'f.
1. The action of ejectment is retained and may be brought as here- fl Munr. 38. :m.
. t to t lie provrstons
. .
h erema
. ft er con ta'me d .
2 Rund. 42'.!.
to f ore, su b Jee
~- It mav" also be brought
in the same cases in which a writ of"~ Rn!ld.
56.1.
,
Leiuh 468.
right might have been brought prior to the first day of July, in the 11 Gratt, 112.
year eighteen hundred and fifty, in the State of Virginia, and by any
person claiming real estate in fee or for life, or for years, either as
heir, devisee, or purchaser, or otherwise.
.
h l
. h .
Act" 1872-3. ch
3. E very such action s al be brought m t e circuit court of the 37.
. w hiie h t lre satid rea l estate, or some part t h ereo f , ts.
.
t888. ch. 7.
county m
~
w. vu. 76:?.
4. .X o person shall bring such action unless he has, at the time of 1 R1111d. 200.
commencing it, a subsisting interest in the premises claimed, and a
4~.
right to recover the same, or to recover the possession thereof, orM ,~\~:137~·
some share, interest, or portion thereof.
5. If the premises be occupied, the occupant shall be named de-1\t~ um, ch
fendant in the declaration; and whether they be occupied or not, any~ ~~~!.f~~-oo-1.
person exercising acts of ownership thereon, or claiming title thereto,
or any interest therein, at the commencement of the action, may also
be named as defendant in the declaration. If a lessee be made defendant without joining his landlord, ·such landlord may appear and
he made defendant with, or in place of his lessee.
6. The action shall he commenced by tbe service of a declaration 6 w. \'u.. 257_
in which the name of the real claimant shall he inserted as plaintiff;
nlfl!I

Tci\,·.\~.

~nu:::: ~t

~OTE·-·.\

tbe plaiutitf,

pr<w••t>ding for unlawful ,l1·t11irwr is 1101 cupubh- of lwini,r n-vlvod on th .. dPuth or
hut abates, ~ W. \'u. 574; 4 Gratt, 86. Pa contra, ,;c,• ~l W. Vu. 4-W.

Digitized by

Google

700

RJEcnttsr.

[CH. 90.

and all the provisions of law concerning a lessor of a plaintiff shall
apply to. such plaintiff'.
3 Call 362.
7. It shall be sufficient for the plaintiff to aver in his declaration
2 W.Ya. 427.
liW. v». I.
that on some day specified therein (and which shall be after his title
~J w. VIL. 482.
27 W. \'I\. 7t12. accrued),
he was possessed of the premises claimed, and being so
28 W. Va. o:!4.
possessed thereof, that the defendant afterwards, on some day to he
stated, entered into such premises, and that he unlawfully withholds
from the plaintiff the possession thereof, to his damage, such sum as
the plaintiff shall state.
8. The premises claimed shall be described in the declaration with
l! ~-~11~,~~-~- convenient certainty, so that from such description possession thereof
26 w.v». t>H. may be delivered.
9. 'I'he plaintiff shall also state whether he claims in fee or for his
life, or for the life of another, or for years, specifying such lives, or
the duration of such term; and when he claims an undivided share
or interest, he shall state the same.
6 :\tunr.38. am.
10. The declaration may contain several counts, and several par:i Rn nd. 46:!.
6 w. v». '¥17.
ties may be named as plaintiffs jointly in one count, and separately
in others.
um.
ch.
11. To such declaration there shall be subjoined a written or printed
1\i'.s
notice by the plaintiff, or his attorney, addressed to the defendant,
and notifying him that the said declaration will he filed on some specified rule day, in the clerk's office of the court in which the action is
to he prosecuted, or in such cou~t on some day named at the> next
term thereof, and that if he fails to appear and plead thereto, within
the time required by law, judgment will be given against him. :--nch
declaration and notice may be served in the same manner as other
notices may by law be served.
But if the defendant do not reside
in the county where the. action is brought, or can not be found
therein, such service may be made in any part of the State where he
may reside or be found; and if he do not reside in the State, or can
not be found therein, so that such service can not be made, an order
of publicntion, as provided l>y law in other cases, may be awarded
against him, and all the laws in force in relation to judgments and
decrees obtained on puhlicut.ion and proceedings in such eases, shall
he applicable to the proceedings and judgment had and rendered in
such action on such publication.
12. Tpon filing the declaration and notice, with proof of the service thereof as aforesaid, the plaintiff shall he entitled to n rule upon
the defendant to appear and pleud at the next rule day, if the same
be filed at rules, or if filed in court. to appear and plead within such
time as shall he prescribed by the court; and if the defendant fail so
' to appear and plead, bis default shall be entered and judgment given
ngainst him.
8 w. v~,. NO.
1 :J. The defendant may demur to the decluratiou, as in personal
I\! w. v». 11'(.1.
•
,~ w.v». 10:1. actions. or pload thereto, or <lo hoth. But he shall plead tho £!£'Il1
:.!!l w · ya. ,,.,).
·
. I 1 stall
l
l H', t I mt t I u• cl'
1 f PtH l ant 1s
• not gm· 1 tv. o f
-41"].
era 1 rssu«
on I y, w I ne
:.!II w. v». !iii}.
.
.
I by t h e p l ainti
. 'ff m
. . t he
::;
w. Yu.;~.
un I aw f u 11 y wit. 11•iuo Id' mg t lre premises
c I aunec

~/tr~~t~\:.9·

Digitized by

Google

Cu. 90.J

701

EJECUIENT.

declaration.
Upon such plea, the defendant may give in evidence
any matter, which if pleaded in the former writ of right, would have
barred the action of the plaintitl.

e
I
3
I

~tunr. 374.
Rnnd. :251'>.
Rnnd. 563.
Grutt. 16.'>--6,

211-12.
JVl,at is to he proud al the triol,
11 Grutt..17'.:?.4~.
, .
d
14Urntt.30.
14. The consent ru I es sha 11 not be use d. T he p I aintiff nee not 1n<,r11u.100.20'.:?.
•
f
h
•
d
)
l
n w. v a, ~ .
. prove an uctua I entry on or possession o t e premises emanc ec, or; w. ,·11. :!89.
' o f any pro fl ts t 1 iereo f , nor any I ease, en t ry or ouster, excep tl:?W.\'u.l.
receipt
24 w. \'a. 231!.
· f ter pron idec1 . Bu t u
it s ha II b e su ffl'cien tf or hiim to s h ow aao
:.'9W.\'n.tl4l,.
as h erema
w. vu. ~.
right to the possession of the premises at the time of the commence-;~"l~'\11• m.
600·
ment of the suit.
15. If the action be by one or more tenants in common, or joint 10 L,•IJ.rli 4f>i.
tenants, or co-parceners, against their co-tenants, the plaintiff shall 4 urnu. 16
be bound to prove actual ouster or some other act amounting to a
total denial of the plaintiff's right as co-tenant
lG. If the action be against several defendants, and a joint posses- 18 W.\'u.10.1
sion of all be proved.and the plaintiff be entitled to a verdict, it shall
be against all, whether they pleaded separately or jointly.
17. If the action be against several defendants, and it appear on 3 Rund. 462.
the trial that any of them occupy distinct parcels in severalty or1l~!'.'\,~~· 100
jointly, the plaintiff may recover several judgments against them, t:r..
for the parcels so held by one or more of the defendants separately
from others.
1 K. The plaintiff may recover any specific or any undivided part 11 Gratt. 78.
or share 'of the premises, though it he less than he claimed in the
declaration.
19. In a controversy atrecting land, when a person claiming under Acts tR'i9.ch.6t.
a patent, deed or other writing. shall enter upon and take possession :6
11.
of any part of the land in controversy under such patent, deed or~
other writing, for which some other person has the better title, such~."'· v«. :!38.
adversary possession under such patent, deed or other writing, shall ~.w. Va. :-w5.
be taken and held to extend to the boundaries embraced or included~~:?."'· Va. 468.
by such patent, deed or other writing unless the person having the:?8 W.Yn.34.2'~.
better title shall have actual adverse possession of some part of the
land embraced by such patent, deed or other writing.

u,~~t~:;,6.?

r r:: ~·

Equital,fr d,fnu:e.v.
20. A vendor, or any person claiming under him, shall not at lawaorntt. ~.374.
recover against a vendee, or those claiming under him, lands sold by~
such vendor to such vendee, when there is a writing stating the purchase, and the terms· thereof, signed by the vendor or his agent.
21. The payment of the whole sum, or the performance of the :IGratt. 28.'l.
whole duty, or the accomplishment of the whole purpose, which any
mortgage or deed of trust mny have been made to secure or effect,
shall prevent the grantee or his heirs from recovering at law, by virtue of such mortgage or deed of trust, property thereby conveyed,
whenever the defendant would in equity he entitled to a decree revesting the legal title in him without condition.
22. A defendant shall not be allowed to avail himself of either of

~h~::'.-:~·

Digitized by

Google

702

[CH. 90.

RH:cn1ENT.

the two preceding sections, unless notice in writing of such defence
shall be filed with his plea.
Whether he shall or shall not make or
attempt such defence, he shall not be precluded from resorting to
equity for any relief to which he would have been entitled, if the
said sections had not been enacted.
Verdict and J1ulgnw11t.
6 Rand. 110.
23. If the jury be of opinion for the plaintiffs, or any of them,
11 Urutt. i8.
l . .
·
aw. Va. 3i,210. the verdict shall be for the p nintifts or such of them as appear to
6 W. v IL. 2-'>7,
h ave rig
. h t tot } re possession
•
.
ta w. vu. 1.
o f t h e premises,
or any part t hereo f , an d
17 W. v«. 1.
•
l
f t l IC (I e f en d ants as were in
. possession
.
18 w. v11. 100. against sue 1 o
t liereo f , or
23 W.Vn. 100.
. d tit. 1 e t l iereto, at t h e commencement o f t h e action.
.
29 w. v«. 600. c l arme
24. Where any plaintiff appears to have no such right, the verdict
as to such plaintiff shall be for the defendants.
ICILIJ~6.
25. When the right of the plaintiff is proved to all the premises
I )lunr. 162.
6 _Muuf. 25.
claimed, the verdict shall be for the premises generally, as specified
2 Rund.6.~.
in the declaration; but if it be proved to only a part or share of the
13Grart. ~premises, the verdict shall specify such part particularly as the same
is proved, and with the same certainty of description as is required
in the declaration.
26. If the verdict Le for an undivided share or interest in the
premises claimed, it shall specif)' the same, and if for an undivided
share or interest of a part of the premises, it shall specify such share
or interest, and describe such part us before required.
aw. v i.37.
27. The verdict shall also specify the estate found in the plaintiff,
9W.\'n.
184.
•
f ee or f or lifi e, stuting
.
f or w h ose l"f
!!'.! w. ,·a.:187.
whether it be 111
1 e, or whether it
28
34•
w. v«.
be a term of years, and specifying the duration of such term.
Ar-ts um, ch.
28. If the right or title of the plaintiff in ejectrnent, be that of a
i~\\'. Va. 103_ tenant for life or for a term of years, and such right or .title shull
130·
expire after the commencement of the action, but before trial, the
verdict shall he according to the fact, and judgment shall he entered
for his damages sustained b)· the withholding of the premises by the
defendant; and us to the premises claimed, the judgment shall he
that the defendant go thereof without day. But the right of the
plaintitf to recover in the action shall not be affected or impaired hy
reason of any conveyance or transfer of the legal title to the premises
in controversy! by or from the plaintiff to another, pending the action.
And where any such conveyance, or transfer is made, the person in
whom the legal title to said premises is thereby vested, may, at any
time before trial, on motion of either party, be made a party plnintitf
in the action, either with or without an amendment of the declaration,
as the court may deem proper rand in such ease, if the plaintitr recover.
the verdict and judgment may he for all the plnintitfs, or for such
of them as may he entitled to the possession of the premises at the
time of the trial.
:IR11t1(l..ffl:!.
:W. The judgment for the plaintiff shall he that he recover the
fl w. v a. '.!.">'i.
possesaion of the, premises, according to tho verdict of the jury. if
9 w. \'tt. 00,I,
:!J W. \'11. JU9.
there he a verdict, or if the judgment be by default, or on demurrer,
14

w.v».

525.

Digitized by

Google

CH. 90.]

703

EJECTlfENT.

according to the description thereof in the declaration.
If the action
be brought to recover dower which has not been assigned before the
commencement of such action, the court in which the judgment is
rendered may have dower assigned by commissoners appointed for
that purpose.
How nuts and prufits, etc.; recocered.
30. If the plaintiff file with his declaration a statement of the profits 2 call~and other damages which he means to demand, and the jury find in ;h0,~~1{:1~.\62.
his favor, they shall at the same time, unless the court otherwise :u w. VII. 186·
order, assess the damages for 11u·1m(' profits of the land for any period
not exceeding five years previously to the commencement of the suit
until the verdict, and also the damages for any destruction or waste
of the buildings or other property during the same time for which
the defendant is chargeable.
31. If there be no issue of fact tried in the cause, and judgment
is to be rendered for the plaintitf on demurrer, default, or otherwise,
the said damages shall he assessed by the court, unless either party
shall move to have them assessed by a jury, or the court shall think
proper to have them so assessed, in which case a jury shall be impaneled to assess them.
32. If the defendant intends to claim allowance for improvements
made upon the premises by himself or those under whom he claims,
he shall file with his plea, or at a subsequent time before the trial
(if for good cause allowed by the court) a statement of his claim
therefor, in case judgment be rendered for the plaintiff.
33. In such case the damages of the plaintiff, and the allowance
to the defendant for improvements, shall he estimated, and the balance ascertained, and judgment therefor rendered, as prescribed in
the ninety-first chapter.
34. On motion of either party, the court may order the assessment
of such damages and allowance to be postponed until after the verdict on the title is recorded.
Effect of judguu:.nt i11 tj,,ctmcnt.
35. Any such judgment in an action of ejectment shall be con- 4 Munf. 38'.!.
elusive as to the right of the possession established in such action, 6 liunr. 233.
upon the party against whom it is rendered, and against all persons
claiming from, through, or under such party, by title accuring after
the commencement of such action, except us hereinafter mentioned.
:16. If any person against whom such judgment is rendered shall 12 w. Vu. 211.
he at the time of the judgment, an infant, married woman, or insane,
tile judgment shall he no bar to an action commenced within five
years after the removal of such disability.
a;. Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the plaintiff' from recovering mesue profits, or damages done to the premises, from any person other than the defendant, who may be liable to snch action.
R,:al nct ion« al)l)fi.~l,nl.
38. No writ of right, writ of entry, or writ of forrnedon shall be
hereafter brought,

Digitized by

Google

CH. 102.]

723

.ACTION OF DETISUE.

ing any defence to the claim of the surety, which he might have
made against the suit of the creditor.

5. If the principal debtor be insolvent, any surety, or his per- :1 !\h~nr. ~5 LPtgh 41-1. a.">:?.
sonnl representative, against whom a judgment or decree has been -t t:rnu .. ~. :.?87.
8 l,rnt1. :lflO.
rendered on the contract for which he was surety, may obtain a judg- 1:! uratt.. tW!.
,:;i
•
•
I
.
.
f h
.
tsw.,·a.:lt:!.
ment or necree by motion, mt re circuit court o t e county, ag:.unstrnw.vu t\l.
hi
I
.
f
hi
l
.
I
~IW.\'a.614.
any co-surety or ts persona representative, or is s rare, in aw or er w. v«. :irn.
equity, of the amount fur which the first mentioned judgment or de-~\·. Ya. 16.
al!l.
cree may h ave 1.ueen renr 1 erer l ; mu l 1"f tl. re same I ias l wen pnu"l , f or sue h:tJ
3:J W.Vn
w, v». :!l>i.
share of the amount so paid, with interest thereon from the time of'14 w. v«. 180·
such payment.

CIL\.Pn~R CII.
OJ,' THE

.\('1'10'.'I

OJ,' 1)1':TJ'.".ll'.K

SEC.

1.1, 1. Plnintitf 111:a~- ohtnin """"''""ion or prop.:1 \ Prty su .. ,1 rur; how.
I. Wh,·11 and how d,·f•·11da11l 11111\" hav»
prop,·rt)· n-turued to him,
•

flow pl11i11tijf ,n,,.IJ ul,toin

JWR,'it',,;.,;,',m

of prnp,'r(IJ 1H1rd for.

1. If the plaintiff' in an action of detinne ~hall desire to have im- 9 w. v». 1118.
•
1.
· } 1 sucua. :!I
IH W. \'11. IHR
possession
o f t } re property f or the
recovery o f w } 11e
w_. ,·.a.flt.;,. t1.,:!.
30 w.v a. :.,.J.
.
.
l
h
I
l
f
l
·
action ts iroug t, ie may, at t ie commencement o t re action, or at
any time after, and before judgment, file with the clerk of the court
in which the act.ion is brought, or if the action is brought before a
justice, with the justice hefore whom the same is brought or is pending, an affidavit stating the kind, quantity. and value of the property
claimed by the plaintiff in such action, and that the ufflnnt verily believes the plaintiff' is entitled to recover the snrne therein. He shall
also, in such case, execute a bond, with good security, to he approved
by the clerk or justice, in a penalty at least double the value of the
property claimed, payable to the defendant, with condition to pay
all costs and damages which may be awarded against him, or sustained by any person by reason of such snit, and to have the property so claimed forthcoming to answer any judgment or order of
the court or justice respecting the same, made at uny time during
the pendency of the action, and shall file such bond with the clerk
or justice.
2. If such ntfldavit and bond be filed at the commencement of the
action, the clerk or justice shall endorse on the summons, an order
to the officer to whom the same is directed, to seize and take into his
possession the property mentioned in such summons.
But if the·
same be filed after the commencement of the action, the clerk or justice shall issue an order reciting the pendency of the action, and
stating the kind, quantity, and value of the property for which the
action is brought, nud requiring the officer to whom the same is
directed, to seize and take into his possossiou the property mentioned
in such order.
mer lirate

Digitized by

Google

724

[CH. 102.

ACTION OF DETINUE.

3. It shall be the duty of the officer to whom any such summons
or order is deli vered, to proceed forthwith to execute the same; and
he may, if necessary, break open and enter any house or other inclosure in which such property may he, in order to seize the same.
D,ff'wlont
18

w. v«.

t..i~.

to ha oe po.'ts,·s:~ion of properf.lJ, uilu-n,

4. The defendant in any such action may have the property taken
possession of hy such officer, by virtue of such summons or order,
returned to him at any time within three days after such taking, upon
executing a bond with good security, to be approved by said oftlcer,
payable to the plaintiff, in a penalty at least double the value of such
property, with condition to pay all costs and damages which may be
awarded againat him in said netion.and all damages which may be sustuined hy any person by reason of the return of said property to him,
and to have the property forthcoming to answer any judgment or
order of the court or justice respecting
the same, made at nny time
during the pendency of the action; which bond shall he delivered to
such otficer, and hy him returned to the oflice of the clerk or justice
who issued such summons or order.
Upon the reception of such
bond by the officer aforesaid, he shall forthwith return the property
taken by him to the <le fendant ; but in case no such bond be delivered
to such officer within said three days, the property shall be delivered
by the otliccr to the plaintiff'.
J~'.,.nptiou.~t,, su rct ir«.
fl. Either party may, upon reasonable notice to the other, except
to the sutlicieucy of the sureties in the bond of such other party nnd
the court, or the judge thereof in vacation or the justice before whom
such action is pending, may, upon the hearing of such exceptions,
make such order in the premises us may seem just and equitable.
r,-rrlil'I; jwlymt'llf;

('Jl;('1tfio11

.

Upon the final trial of any such action, if the verdict be for the
plaintiff, and he lw not already in the possession of the property
claimed, the judgment shall he that he recover the possession of said
property, if a recovery thereof can he had; and if not, that he recover the value thereof us found by such verdict; and in either event,
that he recover the damages assessed by the jury for the detention of
said property, and his costs in such action. And it shall be the duty
of the jury in such cases to ascertain and nssoss such damages, as the
plaintiff has sustained by reason of the detention of such property hy
1·',..'0"11111:1!.!•'"
·1 f PIH 1 ant. If t l lC p l aintit
.. f' lre a l real l y m
. possession
.
art,·r app,·al or t I ie le
o f sue h prop).'11!,";);:i~\1\."~,·;erty the judgment shall he that he retain the possession thereof, and
t hi» eod.-. i
• for damages and costs, as nforcsnid.
In case the verdict at such trial
be for the defendant, if the plaintiff be in possession of the property
claimed, the jury shall, in like manner: ascertain and assess the
damages sustained by the defendant by reason of the detention of
said property by the plaintitl', and also the value of said property.
and judgment shall he entered upon such verdict in all respects as is
provided in case the verdict lw for the plaintiff'.
If on an issue con. ,,.,~ 1xo1..-t,R.!.

~1 \\:.\-\';. ::0.

fj.

Digitized by

Google

Acrroxs

Cn. 103.]

725

POR IN.JURIES.

cerning several things in one count, no verdict be found for part of
them, it shall not he error, but the plaintitf shall be barred of his
title to the things omitted; and if the verdict omit price or value, the
court may at any tune have n jury impaneled to ascertain the same.
7. The execution issued in such cases shall conform in nll things
to the judgment entered therein.

ClL\PTJm Clll.
OJ,' Af'TIOSS

J,'OR IS,JHRIE:-..

St:1·.
St:C'.
i''or r11rnwr luw
t. S1•d1wli1111. al"f.ion for.
s11d1 al"li1111 is lo lw hro11J.!hl: liuritu- 1111 t lu- suhjl't•l
:.!. J11s11lli111! wor,ts. :11:lio11 rur.
lion of :wti1111.
of ll11s <'1111pll·r.
:t \\'r1111J,!f11I tlistrc·,;s, :w.111111 for.
7 .. \,~tinn forda111i1:.r1·s for viulut iun of stat- s1•1• I '11,I,. \'a .
.j,
.\l'li1111 of r1·p(.,1·i11 aholish,·cl.
111,•. ,\,·.
ll'lli0,1'11. 14~. For
f>. A1·1i1111s f11r i11j11ric-.s wlu-r» cit-ath ,·11·
8. \\'lwn ndi"n
,,f r r .. ,..puss 011 t lu- c.•.11sl'ntlwr
rl'f,·r•·n·
><II•·~. ,\,'..
j
111111 IH· hro11"ht
, •. ,. " ,.. 1• 1• s ,. e6. 111 whos,• un nu- ·111,I for whosp hPn,·HI
0. How ·,-11j1,.. hroi'i':.rht a:.rainsl c•.om111011 car- liOII>'.
rit.•r,... uot i11eorpor11t1·cl.
•

.

.

.

.

I

I. An action for seduction may• he maintained ' without anv
ullegat1 ,11111r. !l>!7
J
·
(;ilru,·r ::J,1.
tion or proof of the loss of the service of the female. bv reason of iac;rau :'>7:J.7:.'ti.
•
.
J
:!".! w. \'11, :!.">:!.
the defendant 8 wrongful net.
tH:).
2 . All words which. from their usual construction and common 1:! t.,·i:.rh ,,Jtt.
.
.
I ts, UIH l tern l to v10
. I euce anr1 iureuc
,
l l 1q;ru11.
ti t; ru t t . a:u.
acceptution,
are construer 1 as msu
-st.
1'18·
1•
1
·1
·
·
aw.
o f the peace, s liu 11 1 )C uctionab
e. ,r
xo < l emurrer s lla II prec I ucl ca JUI')'
ta w.v».
\'a.71. lflM.
from passing thereon.
a. If property• be distrained for nnv"' rent not due, or attached for:•' 1t..,t·I~.. _h.!1h11I ~1C4,,.,
any rent not accruing, or taken under any uttuchment sued out without good cause, the owner of such property may, in an action against
the party suing out the warrant of distress or attachment, recover
dumages for .the wrongful seizure, and also, if the property he sold:
for the sale thereof.
-1. No action of replevin shall he hereafter brought.
I ,i;\•~\\1.' . \l~t.1··
! rn.
:). Whene,·er the death of a person shall be caused by wronsrfu
t:,
II . ,till.
act, neglect, or default, and the act, nuglect or default is such as :.·.~;1:~ ..•'.:!.1.'.1',}.~
would (if death had not ensued) have entitled the party injured to tr_~:;,\';)~\f~
m: intain an a •ti, n to rvcov r drum ge"' in respect th r of: then and ~:;:: t~/ J:t, ~~:
in , · •ry u h iase th ! p irson who. or th' corporut ion whi h, we u ld ~:::: i9,/ :f~~ ~~:
hav I en lit ble if d -ath had n t 11. uvd, . hall ht' liuhle to an action \'n a,o: :{4 \\.
\'11. fill fl:H.1
f r dams o s, nr twith 'landing the cl•: th of the pt>I'.'tm injured and 1:: s, 1:. 1~. 1111.
~ Ith nu th> l , th hall hn v h 11 .aus <I nuder su h ir
:.?:! w. v«. l I.
fir. l
r man-

fair and
r
oTt; l'<•r a clb1•u,.. inn of 1111• q11 • lit111, l11\lill'Pd
,., I \\ \ •• I, U4~· :!''
v«. ·>·~.

w

J

•

\'-

In :wtic 11~ for inu hc iou- prosecut iou»,

Digitized by

Google

726

Lrn1TATION

8 L1·i::h HP.
:11 W. v«. ·lf,9.

:l I 'all 11.
3 II. ,\ :\!. -t:!:l.
ti :\I 1111r. :..'1.
:! Ha11tl. HO.
-t I iratt J:11.
1 W.
:!13.
e w.v». H7.
-t W. Va. llM.
fi w. v a. IO.
16 w.v», ~!.

v».

6 lirntt. 189.
; (;rall. :Jo;.
11 (i rn It. llll7.
I W.\·11. sr.

OF

Surrs.

[Cn. 104.

ered shall not he subject to any debts or liahilities of the deceased:
l'roridl'ft That every such action shall be commenced within two
years nfter the death of such deceased person.
7 . Auy person injured by the violation of any statute may recover
from the off ender such damages as he may sustain by reason of the
violation, although a penalty or forfeiture for such violation he thereby
imposed, unless the same be expressly mentioned to be in lieu of
such damages.
8. In any case in which an action of trespass will lie, there may
he maintained an action of trespass on the case. *
H. Where common carriers arc not incorporated, any one or more
of them may he sued by his or their name or names only, to recover
damages for loss or injury to any parcel, package, or person, and
such suit shnll not nhute for the want of joining any of his co-proprietors or co-partners.

la w.v«. 81:!.

CllAPTEll

CIV.

(.\s :tlll<'lld•·tl anti r•··<'n:wll'<I.

S,•,• .\ds

LDIIT.\TION
St:,·.
I. Limitation

11111,I.

2.

nf ,·nlry

011. or actio11

for.

t_'o111i1111al cla itu d,ws uot sa\'<' rhd1t.
1·1,•.
3. , Furtlwr
ti1111• 11 ll11w1•1J p•·rsnns 111111,•r
-1. I disahililL Pl<'.
For Iorrm-r lu w a.. \s lo rhthts ··~isl in:: wlu-u this net lak1•.-.
011 th" >'llhi•·,·t"
,·tr,·,·1.
of tliis «'11:q;r,·r. It Limit:1tin11 of J><'rs11n11l :wt ions.
""'' ( 'ntl,• \·a. ,. On h1111d, of 11,lawiari«·s.
!Hlill.,•h. HO. For H. EIT,·•·t of nvw prom ise ill writ I•-:.:.""'·
otlll'r
r .. r,·r•·n- \I Elf•·•·t of 1wk11owlo·d:.:11w11t; ..t,· .. of p«·rt•ti !'ii
:-it• t•
~PC·
so1111I r<'pr,•s,·ntati\'<' or joint. eo11trn,•tor.
t iou s.
IO. 01wr11tio11 of ,·hapt .. r not atft·d1·d h., d,·-

I~:!. eh. l(t~.I

OJo' SUITS.

I St:c.

v i-a- or h1111I ror tlu- pa_n1w111 nf ,!,•ht;.,

•.••.•
II.
1·•

Lirnltu tion 11,- 111 r.. , ... 1,rnii.111w••s.
Liuutu uon or ot.lwr adi1111,; not 'JM·,·i·
H,•11.
1:{ .. \t•linlls on jlld!lllll'llh, t•t«•., of lllloth••r
star,•: wlu-n hnrr<·«I.
14. Suil,; tn uvoid volunturv u1-1•d,< ... tc.
J;,.
To r,•p•·iil i.:r1111ts.
•
)ti. I Wh,•11 luuttn tion d,M·!; not appl~ or j,..
17. \ 1111:1 lilh·d.
IS. S11\"i11:.: to µlai11tilf. wherr- pros•·L'Ution nf
suit i~ J>T<'\'<'IIIPd. ..i,· .. h\' ,t,·f1·11,la11t.
HI. Furt lu-r riuu- ::i\·,·11 pli\iut\lT. whvn.

Limitut iun of 1·11try 011. 11r action for l1111d.t
;\~·t11\~:~1•111'./:!. 1. Xo person shall make an entry on: or bring an action to rei~t If!'.!:!. ch. cover, any land, hut within ten years next nfter the time ut which
the right to make such entry or to bring such action shall have first
accrued to himself or to some person through whom he claims.
itt ,~~. ,·Jr. 2. Xo continual or other claim upon or near nny land shall preserve any right of making an entry or bringing an action.
1<1.
3. I( at the time at which the right of any person to make an en~a w.v». ,,u. try on, or bring an action to recover, any land, shall have first accrucd, such person was an infant, married woman, or insane, then
such person, or the person chiming through him, may, notwithstanding the said period of ten years shall have expired (except in
the case of a married woman, where such html .is her sole and separate property), make an entry on, or bring an action to recover such
land, within the years next after the time at which the person to
-or
\"11.

i11ju1lt'lio11>- to r,·str,d11 tr,·,-pn,,. on r.-u l ,•,tat ... ..,.,. i \\'.
lif,: :!'1 W. v«. 1~11s: 21\ w. v«. ~l:I.

,·u. 2'~1:

14 W. \"a. 63'i:

00 \\',

is L,·h..:h .J;",R: I t.rntt.
It\:,. :!II: ·I (;r:itt.
Ill. 1'4:!: -t Hand. 4\1:1: n L•·i:.:h :!81: ;, (;r11tt. 110: 10
(;ra tl. :.l:11. :1or,. :~I. -IW. -1:!I: I I ( ;ra lt. !,Oi',. ;'fi:!. :,..,;: 1:! Ii rn II. -IIO: I\ w. \·11. :!!,, ; " W. Ya, ¥18:
10 w. v«. !\ii: 1:! w. \"11. :~. tiH. 711: It w. v«. flril: l!l w. \ :1. :tlH: ~ w. \":1 .. Poq); 21
v».
:{IX: :!'.! w. v«. 1:..'11: :!:I\\'. \'11. 1114. i17: :!-l w. v». :.::;i.: :t."1 w. \'a. iM: :!I}\\'. \"u. 3'.'i. tl:N: '!.
\\'. \'a. 468; ~ W. \·a.:~.
iH: ;31 W. \";1. 41'i: 3:! W. \·a. l:J.t ltH. :fii.

w.

0

Digitized by

Google

CH. 104.J

•

trnn'ATION

727

OF Srrrrs.

whom such right shall have first accrued as aforesaid, shall have
ceased to be under such disability as existed when the same so accrued, or shall have died, whichever shall first have happened.
4. The preceding...... section is subject to these provisos: Thnt
no .\c-ts
tAA:!. r-h.
.
Ill'.'
such entry or action shall he made or brought by any person, who, '.!".!-\\. v«. reo.
at the ti~ie at which his right to make or bring the same shall have
first accrued, shall be under any such disability, or by any person
claiming through him, but within twenty years next, after the time
at which such right shall have first accrued, nlthough the person,
under disability at such time, muy have remained under the same
during the whole of such twenty years, or although the term of ten
years from the period at which he shall huve ceased to be under any
such disability, or have died, shall not have expired. And when uny91.,·h:h-UY.,.
person shall he under nny such disability at the time at which his
right to make an entry or bring an action shall have first accrued,
and shall depart. this life without having ceased to he under any such
disability, no time to make an entry or to bring an action, beyond the
ten years next after the right of such person sh nil hu ve first accrued,
or the five years next after the period of his death, shall he allowed
by reason of any disability of any other person.
5. All actions pending on the twenty-seventh day of )larch, one .,c_;,. tHi\t. 11. -t·!.
. I. h unc1 rel l an d sixty-one,
.
. lllll.
t wo .\cts
( lt1t·h1110111l.1 di.
t I iousanc I. eight
or l iroug I it wit
11(_~.
years thereafter, for the recovery of land, and not determined on the :'.furntt. r,711.
day this chapter takes effect, shall be go,·ern<'cl as to limitation hy
the law in force on the twenty-sixth day of March, one thousaud
eight hundred and sixty-one. and all such actions brought after the
expiration of the said two years, and pending on the first day of
April, one thousand eight hundred and sixty-nine, shall he governed
as to limitation hy the law in force on the ,lay previous thereto. All
such actions, hrought on or after the first day of April, one thousand
•
.\<'.1,- 1868.p.lM.
eight hundred and sixty-nine, shall lH' governed as to limitation hy 1~·; ... ti. Hr.!.
I \\ usb. 190.
the law in force on the day before this chapter us urncndcd takes 1 11. ,\ '.\I. :r.~.
.
.
.
l.
I.
I 1
f-tll.,\:.\l.".!flll.
etrect, anyt b mg III any statute pn8se, since t.he scventecnt 1 ( uy o =~ \l1111r. 1o1.
. I it I nuu I n•< l a11<1l sixty-one,
•
l,111111. :.!X-4 .
.:\ prt ·1 , one t h· ousum 1 Pig
to t I l<.' contrary -tI Ruud.
-•~.
• l
1"
fll{and.:!"~.
notwit tstan:

., L•·hth :!:lltaH1.
tiO:t
I) I.Ph.th -ta. :iXt .
.ii:t
I SP<• t•ltn pt,•r t:36. ,-;pc• • .f. 11r I Iii,- ( '.rnJ.•.)
I Hoh. 119.
fi. Every action to recover money, which is founded upon an 1.~;i:1111.
=l?'.:
I.. t,ra1t. .ll.1,l.
nward, or on nny contract other than n juclgment or rocogniznnce, 1:11;ru11. :!!1i.
•
·
la 1;rn11. 4~i.
shall l,p brought within the following number of years next after the :1 \\_·.
_11o1!1. -·
1
. I it to hrmg
.
'' • ' .a· r .t-i. • •1•,
rig
t I ie same s l iu 11 l rave fl rst uccruer l , t I mt .1s to say: If t I ie -1'.',(o.
111g.

/,i111if11fi1111 1,f j>r'l"IW/11,l

uct iou «,

'.°"·

.
l ion: l ta krcn unr l er any statute, or upon h: \\w. . \,·11.11:l.
a. lf!S.:llrw.
upon an .1111l cm111. fy111g
.
.
Ii
.
x w.vu.jr..
a l ,ont1 o f an executor, tl< 1 mintstrntor, or guarr um, curator, C'om1111t-11w.,·a:J.'"vl.flH.l.
tee, sheriff or deputy sheriff, clc..'rk or deputy clerk, or nny other tidu- J~
~:;::a~~~~-i.
cinry or public ottlcer, within ten yenrs ; if it he upon any other eon-!;/'· v». en.
trar-t by writing under seal. executed before the first <lay of .\pril, :~ \\:.'-~·}t·i.-~.
one thousand Pight hundred and sixty-nine, within twenty )"('~ll"S, hut :,\r\r. v«. fJO-t.
if executed on 'Or after that dav
within ten Jveurs ·' if it be upon an :!o
w. v«. iss,
J
~H. 588.
Ctl8C l lC

~~<

Digitized by

Google

•

128

[CH. 10-t.

Ln11TATION OF St:ITS.

award, or upon a contract hy writing, signed by the party to be
~
charged thereby, or by his agent, but not under seal, within ten vears :
•
•
'!4·. . 79 and if it be upon any other contract, within five years, unless it be
:.., \\ . \ u. t...
.
. l
h
l .
.
.
:!w. \"11. r.;11\. an action for an artic e c argcc 111 any store account, 111 which case
~:(w. v». 41!( the action may be brought within three years, or an action by one
41tt
·
hiis co-partner f or a set.ti ernent o f tie
I partners I up
. ac:?X w. v». :l8R. partner against
~\·. v». ns. counts, or upon accounts concerning the trade of merchandise hei:··;\r.Yn.9:l.l9fi. tween merchant and merchant, their factors or servants, where the
rot. action of account would lie, in either of which cases the action may
~~~-'~-\·a. IM4. be brought until the expiration of five years from a cessation of the
:i:1 w , v«. -1;a. dealings in which they arc interested together, hut not after .
. \ ..b t~!di.
7. The right of action upon the bond of an executor, administru.
'tf ucnng
.
1•
.'11t.!.
<!r111u.3_1. 4:t!. tor, guart l'tan,. curator, or committee,
or o f a suert
us sue I 1 •
.:!
i c 'rn
t
t. .\,,-.,x_
l
11
l
1
·
1
I
fi
I
f
11
I
•
1
l'att•m
u nd s in
w < ocmeu to iu \'C rst accruec us o ows:
_, pon a JOllt. I of tt
11•·11111 :.;:i-4.
1·
f
l
f
I
.
f
I
..
:1 H1111,1. 11;.
guarc um or curator o a ware• rom t ie time o t re war d s attaining
:i L•·i:.!11 :J.tK
I
f
t
f
I
.
.
f
I.
:\ 1..-1:.ih uP. 11H. t re age o twen y-one years, or roru t 1e termtnation o
the guar( 1·1i
411:;. ans or curator's orlice, whichever shall happen first; and upon the
~l t:.".1~\:'7.1· bond of any personal representative of a decedent or committee of an
:i:I w · v«. ;,;a. insane person, the right of action of a person obtaining execution
against such representative or committee, or to whom payment or
delivery of estate in the hands of such representative or committee
shall he ordered by a court acting upon his uccount, shall he> deemed
to have first accrued from the return «lay of such execution, or from
the time of the right to require payment or delivery upon such order.
whichever shall happen first. And as to any suit n~ainst sur-h fiduciury himself', or his representntive. which could have beeu maintainecl if he hud ~iwn no bond, then- shall lx- no other limitation
than would exist if the preceding section were not passed.

:!1 w. ,·11.1. 396.
fl!IS. 11111.
'.!:i w: \"i!. 100.
'!.f \\ . \ H. :!Slfl,

~~,,~::1.

l::t:: :~{

//011·

t~(

111·/11111

fu11·r1·,/

lllff I/
0

fu•

rrrirrs],

etr ,

8. If any pcr:-1011 against whom the right shall hnv« so accrued on
au award, or on any such contract, shall hy writ in~ sigrn•cl hy him
or his a~t·nt, promise payment of money on such awurd or contract.
tho pen,on to whom the right shall have so accrued. may muintuin au
}
notion or suit for the money so promiser , within such number of
~~'\\·
·1 promise\
.
. I it origina
'.
II y h ave I t<'t'll nuun.
. 1:1 ".,~·a·:u:.'.: ;.,.1. yenrs a f tvr t lat• sate
as .it uug
tained within, upon the award or contract, nnd the plnintitf. may
either sue on such a promise, or on tho origtnnl cause of action.und in
the latter case. in unswer to n plea under the sixth section, may, h~·
way of replication. state such promise, and that such action w:,s
hronght within tlw snitl nnmlier of )'Pars tlwrcufter; hut no promi~<'.
exc£'pt hy writin~ ns uforesnitl, shnll take any C'nsc out of the> opt•rution of the saicl sixth sf•(•tion. or <lcpriw nny pnrty of UH• \)('1wfit
therPof. An ucknowlt•dl,!nH•ut 111 writ.in~ ns nforesnid, from whid1 :1
pron1ist• of payment mny h<' implied, shal1 he t.lcemed lo h(• snl'h
promis(• within tlw meanin~ of thi8 sl'etion.
i~~)" 1"~!. ··l1. !I. ~o 1wk11owledgml'llt or promist• hy uny 1wrsonul repr('~e11t:1tin•
~i'L~·:;.:~-=~~: i:!4. of a decl•t.lent, or hy oue of two or wore joint contructQrs, sbuU charge
.,,.,,..

•

cu ns»:

t~'.'.!.

,.1,.

IO:?.
:1 t ·a II f>l4.
I L•·il!I, :\Ill.
7 t ;r:111. =*""•·
1c«;rn11. 110.
II\\' .. \":.1. It~~
,~ w. \a.:..,,\.

Digitized by

Google

CR.

104.J

LrnITATION

7~9

OF Su1TS.

the estate of such decedent, or charge any other of such contractors;
in any case, in which, but for such acknowledgment or promise, the
decedent's estate or another contractor could have been protected
under the sixth section of this chapter.
10. No provision in the will of any testator, devising his real estate, i~~'." 1~· eh.
or any part thereof, subject to the payment of his debts, or char~ing~ :l: :~ ~:: ~~~the same therewith, shall prevent this chapter from operating against1l~~:!~/:l.
such debts, unless it plainly appear to be the testator's intent that it ~1 w · v«. ~.
shall not so operate.
Liniitation r,f uct ion, etc .. 011 rN-.11gni;:,111c,·.
11. Every action or srir« f,1t·i,,." upon n recognizance shall, if it he i~t'' ,~:!. ,·h.
not a recognizance of hail, be commenced within ten years next after
the right to hring the same shall have first nccrued, and if it he a
recognizance of bail, within three years after the right to hring the
same shall have first accrued.
'"'" l~'!.
eh.
Liuiitatio» of p,,rs,01,,I uct ion« 1101 ,'lJH'<'1jical(1J z,r111·i,frd for.
io·..!.·
12. Every personal action for which no limitation is otherwise
~!IU.
scribed, shall be brought within five years next after the right to 1 ~l::::~))}-301,
bring the same shall have uccrucd, if it he fora matter of such natnre~-t~j1~~:io1. :la-l'.!.
that, in case a party die, it can he brought hy or against his rcpre- ~ ~;'.i1~</; ,t:S:
sentative: nnd if it he for a matter not of such nature, shall lw brought 1/'r'~·i·T!\ . . ;.!~.
within one year next after the right to hring the same shall huve ft.1;:;~~\Af·
accrued, and not after,
f,~g~.~~·/=f~· HH.
:tl:t
/.,imilolio11 o.J' '"·lio11 or .<111il 011 .for,·i911 jud.l/llll:111, «t«,
ii (;mt t. tr..
rn. Every action or suit upon a judgment or decree, rendered ini
:~tt
any other state or country, shall he burred, if by the laws of such~~
;g~!:
state or country such action or snit would there he barred, and the~1
ff.-!.
or
dee
rec
he
incapuhle
of
heinz
otherwise
en
forced
there.
~·
w. Va. 7-to.
J· udzment
0
0
!{4 \\'. \'II. ~-,'.!.
And whether so barred or not, no net ion against a person who shall
have resided in this State during the ten years next preceding such .,,.1,. IHX"~. ,·h.
action, shall hC:' Lronght upon any such judgment or docrce rendered ;\';L11,1. :,o.1.
more than ten years before the commencement of such action.
Y9\-~~.1;.~;~.
Sui/.,; to or,,id y(li.~, rtr.; o nd In l'f'J>f'l,I grout.".
14. No gift, conveyance, assignment, transfer or chnrgo, which is.,,.,~ iAA·!. ,.1 ..
not on consideration deemed valuable in law, shall he avoided. either :;1··t·h!'h 1:r..
in whole or in part, for that. cause only, unless within five years afterUt~~,~~/~~l.
it is made, suit he brought for that purpose, or the subject thereof', :~l ~~: ~::::
or some part. of it, he distrainod or levied upon hy or at the suit of a 1·: s. E. 11. 1 ur~.
creditor, as to whom such gift, conveynueo, nssianment. transfer or
charge is declared to he void hy tho second section of the seventyfourth chapter of this code.
15. A hill in equity to repeal. in whole or in part, any grunt of·';',"' PN'.!. 1·11.
land hy this State or of the state of Virgin in, shall he brought within \\·;·ra,t. '..~11.
ten ye:us next after the rlute of such grunt, und not ufter.
1~·!. "11·
.
.
.,,.,~
l r,, 11,·11 /'11,111,,1,,,,,
, I ,,,·:,; 1111t "Pl' I.'I 01· 11,;. 'l'"! 1·.
'/"'' I .
HI'..!.
rn. If any person to whom the right accrues to bring any sucld ~:::::~: :;~\.-,·~.
persOil:\l action, SU it Of Heir,, j,t,·i,t.'11 01' uny !iUCIJ hill to repeal U. grant, r.l~~~~t.~.

prc-1 ll: :~ ~l:

~rt::
~~·.r:.~ .
~r:~::::

~t

Digitized by

Google

730

trnITATION

[CH. 104.

OF SUITS.

~i ~t t!: ~-

shall be, at the time the same accrues, an infant, married woman. or
<,.• ..: ch. 1.311 .. ~ t, insane, the same (except in the case of the married woman, as proa n: <'11. 139.~ II.
0r n.r- ~··"'"->
vided in section three of this chapter) may be brought within the like
'.!5 \\. \ u , lill.
number of years after his becoming of full age, unmarried. or sane,
that is allowed to a person having no such impediment, to hring the
same after the right accrues, or after such acknowledgment as aforesaid, except that it shall in no case be brought after twenty years
from the time when the right accrues.
j~~'." JAA-!. d1. 17. If a person die before the time at which any right mentioned
1:::1~1: ff· in this chapter would have accrued to him if he had continued alive.
; Gru t t . :r.;.
and there be an interval of more than five years between the death
of such person and the qualification of his personal representative.
such personal representative shall, for the purposes of this chapter,
he deemed to have qualified on the last day of the said five years .
. \<·t,; 1x;'.!-:t. l'h.
lH. Where anv such right as is mentioned in this chapter shall
11'.!.
J
JliOC".!. ch. H>'.!.
accrue against a person who had before resided in this State, if such
t ~, 1111r. :ms.
I L,·it.!11 1tt:t
person shall, hy departing without the same, or by absconding or
:1 l,•·h.!11 i:.'9.
; 1.,·id1 err.
concealing himself, or hy any other indirect ways or means, obstruct
l prosecution
·
' I it, or if1 sue h rig
· h t h as been or s h tl 11 l.>C
,;II w.lirall.
v«. '.!6.
179.
tie
o f sue. h rig
v«. "00· hereafter obstructed by war, insurrection or rebellion, the time that
such obstruction may have continued shall not he computed as any
part of the time within which the said right might or ought to have
been prosecuted. But if another person he jointly or severally liahle
with the person so obstructing the prosecution of such right, and no
sucb obstruction exist as to him, the exception contained in this section as to the person so absconding shall not apply to him in any
:! wn~h. '.!It!.
action or suit brought against him to enforce such liability. And
upon a contract which was made and was to he performed in another
state or country, by a person who then resided therein, no net ion
shall be maintained after the right of action thereon is barred hy the
laws of such state or country.
,,,.," llr.:!-:J, ,·11.
I !I. If auy action, commenced within due time, in the name of
\~;.!. vh. w·.!.
or uguins; one or more plaintitfs or defendants, abate as to one' of
!1
act..!.
them h}" the return of no inhabitant, or hy his or her death or mari~i'.":101. riuge, or if, in an action commenced within clue time>, judgment (or
other and further proceedings) for the pluint itls should ho urrosu-d or
reversed, on a grouncl which clews not preclude a new action for the
sumo cause, or if there ht> occasion to hring n new suit hy reason or
the said cause having been dismissed for want. of securitv for cost s,
or by reason of any other cuus«, which could not he pl<':LLI in bar of
an action, of tho loss or th•st ruction of any of the papers or recon Is
in a former suit which was in due time; in m·ery such case, notwithstarnling the expiration of t ho time within which n new action or
suit must otherwise huve Ix-en brought, the same may he brought
within one year after such uhutement, dismissal or other cause, or
ufter such arrest or reversal of judgment. or such loss or destruction,
but not after.

i

i7/"·

~ ~r: ~:: : :~.;.

:\i,,'::

t ~:::::r

Digitized by

Google

CH. 106.]

741

ATTACRllESTB.

thereof vested in the State, or in the purchaser thereof ut said sale,
his heirs or assigns, shull order said proceeds and interest, less the
tax aforesaid, to be paid to petitioner, and upon a properly certified
copy of said order being presented to the auditor, he shnll draw his
warrant upon the treasury in favor of such owner or his personal
representative for the payment thereof.
lf/,n,

tchere suit» to be l>rouglit.

H11d

21. No suit shall be brought under the provisions of this chapter, Ad~
until the same be authorized by an order of the circuit court of the
county in which the real estate which is to be the subject of such
suit is situate; nor shall any such suit be brought in any county other
than that in which said real estate is. Subject to these restrictions,
the State of West Virginia may in her {IWn name commence, prosecute and maintain any action, suit or proceeding in respect to any
such forfeited, waste and unappropriated or escheuted lands. us are
hereinbefore mentioned, which an iudlvidunl person might commence,
prosecute and maintain in respect to his own lands.
And in any
action, suit or proceeding under this chapter, the court may award
any necessary writ or process, including writs of possession, in order
to carry its decrees and judgments into effect.
But no suit shall be
brought ugainst any person claiming title to a tract or parcel of land
of not exceeding five hundred acres, the title to which is claimed by
or under a purchaser at a judicial sale which has been confirmed by
the court.
Appt·al.~, &e.

th'91.da.w.

22. Appeals from, and writs of error or ..w1w1·.~1·dt:t1,'i to, the decrees, .\ct"
judgments and orders of the circuit court, rendered or made under
the provisions of this chapter, may be had and taken and allowed as
provided in chapter one hundred and thirty-five of this code; and all
the provisions of said chapter, so far as applicable, shull apply to
appeals, writs of error and snpersedca« under this chapter.

1801.ch.!J.l.

CHAPTJm CVI.
( .\s nnu-ndvd and re-vnucu-d.

01'' .\TTACIDIE~TS
Si,;.-.

!

AND

S.·1• .\cl" ll'C8:!. eh. I&!.)

.\RH.EST

01" DE1''ENDANT.

St:c.

~::·:t:·~:!;.

li

I. j.: \tr'.:~;:11 1::'r"~:;i,~~~~t;:} :~:~·:1:::,1'~1
I Or.h-r or p11ltli,·a1io11: d,•r.-111·1· to t lu'!. \ tu in cas,,,..,
11tt1wh11H'11t111111 ju,l:..:nwnt.
3 .• \Und111w11t
for rvut. ror111 or: dl'f(•11c1· :!I. How "nit• of rP11l ,•,-tah·. under nttuchttll'r••to.
IIIPllt. 11111 v 111· 1111ul,•.
-1. l)uty a111l li11l.1ilityor ofl11'.1•r lo whom al>
Wlw11 plaia'1titf. must l,!in• bond l.14ifor.••
tacluur-nt is d"1iv•·rt•1l for s .. rvie«,
,-al,· or rl'III 1•st1111•.
5. l'pon what 11ll1lt'h1111•11t~ mny h,• IPvit•il,
:!.':!. Pr-t.it.iou ,lj,..putin!! plaintiff',; claim, ,'l:e.
1111d what .. 11,lors,·1ni·11f,; plaiutitf 11111y ! :!-I. Priority of 11tt11eh11w11t.
tu,v,· 1111 ttn- or,lt•r..
. ._
l!;'>. lk·lwarinl,! 11rt•·r j11d!!1111•11t or ~Jt·cr1·•~.
I\. At11wh111P11t bond: its en11,ht11111 . .\-1'..
:JI.• Jwl!!1111•11t or 1!1•,·r .... 011 r•··lwartn!!.
7. Ofl\l'•·r i-..r,·intt. to 11111k1• t•,•rt11i11 n-turu-. !!7 1 Wlwr1• d11m111,!t•s-11g11i11~t pl11i11t.ilf. or up·
s. .\tta,·hnwnt rua v Ii<• j,;,,u,·d or 1'\1•1:Utl'tl to I. 111·111 from [udumvnt : how h1111di- 11r1•
011 Sun,:a~·. whi-u,
~. I !!iv1·11 in 11ti.1ll'h1111'11t cns,•i..
g 1
. ._1 }
k•·1•pini.r
to
\r.•··t,
f .. _r,, _ •·
10 1 Att1wh111,·11t li-u : r,•pl•·vyini.r.
or Sl'lllll!! pro1wr1y.
:J:!. . r s I I1 . -111 ,Ill 1 .
u,
:it /
.
.
to Proee.. dlnl,\'l! whvrv thr-re i~ 11 ":I rni,..hi•i• j to ,. Proc1•1•il Ill!!" to nl_,111111 d1sd111 r!!•': pro·
J6. \
"
· · :Ji. ~ c1.·i;:s to compel disclosure of p,-tat1•.

!.~\. \

I:!:!.

I
I

13.)

I

l

Digitized by

Fo fo 1 I .. r luw
r
ri
011 l~ll' subject
or thr ~·11•Pt~·r.
~1·~:~,·In l~l L' 11..
""'.c 1. " . r or
Iurthr-r r « r,·r·
1\IICI'>', Sl'l' Sl.'C·
I\OIIS.

Google

7-12

[CH. 106 .

.:\ TT ACHlfl'!-ST~ .

• l1t,u·lrn11·11l-1rl,u1 ,11,d l,,,,r -~"""

0111 •

1. When any action at law or suit in equity is about to he or is
,,,.!.
instituted for the recovery of any claim or debt arising out of conl)C"jl.,·h. 1:1t1.
,,..,...~_ ..i r. '"'"·
tract, or to recover damages for :my wrong, the plaintiff at the com1);><.=.. .-1 .. :i>'.
l*-7. ,.,,. :u.
mencement of the action or suit, or at any time thereafter and before
;J("aJJ,t:;.=,_
•
",11111r.
171;.
[ur l gmeut, may h an· an orr l or o f nttuc Iiiment agamst
the property of
~ :~:.\'~t ;_~_- the dPfe1ulant: on tiling with the clerk of the court in which such ac~f'i!.!'la it:t:r..!. tion or suit is about to he or is brought, bis own affldavit or that of
06· some credible person, stating the nature of the pluintitls claim and
the amount, at the least. which the attiant believes the plaintiff is
gt'f;.:'r'i\t','.~·,. justly entitled to recover in the action or suit, and also that the
:~~:~;:::·. ~: nfflant believes that some one or more of the following grounds exist
1r.1
(rn.tt. r». :~1. for such attachment.
I \\. \ a. IIS .• ,._
~~_-}i:.- .;ff
First-That the defendant, or one of the defendants, is a foreign
:'> w. ,·a. :!"..!.
corporation, or is a non-resident of this ~tatc; or
i ~~::r~: ~'S,·c,11/fl-Has left, or is about to leave the :-;late, with intent to de:~ ~u:::J!t: fraud his crerlitors ; or
::: ~tJ'/1•• ~1·. Tl,ird-~o conceals himself that a summons can not be served up11~ ~\:}~.-on him; or,
i~t."·· v». a.=.1. F1Jurtl1-ls removing or is about to remove, his property (or the
~ ~t\·~~;t1». proceeds of the sale of his property, or a material part of such prop'......!'!"·,,. v Ii, ..lI. ty, or proceeds) out of this ~talc, so that process of execution on
a
.
MO. Mio.
judgment
or decree in such action or suit, when it is obtained.. will
:!15 \\'. \'11. :!!I.
.
~:'4 \\.\II.
w ,: 11. :!14.
be una vai ling; or,
I.
.
:.'9 ,~ .• \'11. -;-1r.!.
P,fth-Is
converting, or is about to convert, his property, or a
ii'11. ,H:t
•
l
.
. .
se w. v«. -ti. oo. rnateria part t h ereo f , mto
money or securrties,
wit. l 1 .intent tote1 f rant t
his creditors; or,
Si.rth-Hus assigned or disposed of his property or n material part
thereof, or is about to do so, with intent to defraud his creditors; or,
,\',T,·1it/1-llas property or rights in action, which he conceals; or,
Eig/,t/,-Framluleutly
contracted the debt or incurred the liability
for which the action or suit is about to he or is brought .
. vnd unless the attachment is sued out upon the first of such
grounds, the ufflant shall also state in his aftlduvlt the material facts
relied upon by him to show the existence of the grounds upon which
his upplicntion for the attachment is based.
But upon objection to
the sutlk-ieucy of such facts. the affiunt shall have the right, within
such time, not exceeding ten days, as may- Le prescribed by the
court, in which tilt' action or snit is pending, to file a supplemental
utlldnvit, stnting any other facts which may have come to bis knowlt•dgl' siueo tho filing of the origiarnl atfldavit, nnd which nrc relied
upon to show the existence of such ~rounds; and when filed, such
supplemental affidavit shall ht• taken as a portion of the original.
The order shall be issued by the clerk, and muy he in form or effect
as follows:
. , .. t~ tM.1. p.
ll'v.7. p. lt7.
JN"M. p.

n

::.!~;:t}.~r·'

:,:;~;.~:i.~.

J

r::

Digitized by

Google

Cn. HIG. J
''.-\--

743

ATTACIUIE~T~.

B---,

Plaintiff',)

, Order of Attachment.
('-D---,
Defendant. \
The plaintiff in this case having filed his ntfldavit as required by
law, the sheriff of the county of
, or a constable of uny district therein, to whom this order may come, is required, in the name
of the State of West Virginia, to attach the estate of the defendant,
C-T>---1 sufficient to pay the sum of --(the amount the
affiant states the plaintift' is justly entitled to recover) and the costs
of this suit, and make return of his proceedings under this order to
tho next term of the -court (or at rules to he held for the --court on the -- clay of---,
naming in either case the court in
which the action is brought).
Witness E-F---,
clerk of said court, this-<lay of--.
E--F---,
ct.,«:
And such attachment may be sued out in a court of equity for a a w.,·11. -11,).
.
l
l
· ll
h l
th e same 1 ie < l ue or no·t,\\.\'a.:l'
.!-1.-li>-I.
< l (' lt, , or c· I rum, cga or equita .1 o, w et rer
,01.
1
.
1
t
l
ff'
l
lt
.
}
l
.
H W. \'a.~~upon any o f t I ie gro11111 l s a f orvsuu , nu t ie a H av, m cnse t 1e c aim !I w. ,·11• :..>ti.
or debt he not due, must show when it will become due: /'roridnl,
'fhat an uttnchrnent shall not he sued out against a foreign corpora-~ ~\'. '-~!/1~~tion for a debt not duo upon the ground alone that it is u foreign cor-1\\". ,.11• :r!-1.
porution, nor a~ainst n non-resident defendant for a debt not due, ~\ '. ,.11• 195_
unless the ulflunt shows by his urlldavit that such defendant was a ;:J ~}·,~_-4;'1i~4K
resident of this :-it.ate when the debt was contracted, and that the
plaintiff believed he would remain a resident of this :-4tat(• at the time
he gave the defendant credit,
t. lf the plaintiff' at t lt<~ time of suing out his nttnchment, or after- .\,•1,.1M1ID. p.Hl'!
. l gruent, give
.
h '
l
l
.
. . l I
l 11'8:.!. cl1. li.x.
f
wart l s l ierore
Jll<
t · e non: urn security requirer iy the 1-1 w.v». :!%.
sixth section of this chapter, such order may he in form or effect as
follows:
".:\--B---,
Plaintiff, ")
rs ,
- Order of Attachment.
C--D---,
Defendant.
\
The plaintirl in this casehaving filed the necessary utfldavit and
bond, the sheritf of the county of--,
or a constable of any district
then-in, to whom this order shall come, is hereby required, in the
name of tho State of West Virginia. to attach and take into his possession U1e estate of the defendant, ( '--I>---,
sufficient to
pay the sum of -dollars (the amount altlant states the plaintif!
is justly entitled to recover). and the costs of the suit, and make return of bis proceedings under this order to the next term of the
--court (or at the rules to bf." held for the --court on the
-day of--, naming in either ease the court in which tho uetion is brought).
Witnt>ss E--F----.
clerk of said court, this -1lay of
I':--F---,
f'/,,,,t.,.··
An order of uttuchment under this or the precedlng section, may
he issued and directed to the sheriff or a constable in any county of
1:.or.

:t ~~::~:~: :r

Digitized by

Google

742

:\ TT ACH~fE~TS

[CH. 106.

.

. 1ttocl11111·11t-,rlH·11
1111,l /11,w :rnrd out.
1. ,nien any action at law or suit in equity is about to he or is
IM7, p. 147.
,~. p, tO'.J.
instituted for the recovery of any claim or debt arising out. of con1l'r.t.1ih. 136.
,~'.!. di. ,~.
tract, or to recover damages for any wrong, the plaintiff at the com1&1.,. ch. :i8.
JM!-17. ,.,,. 34.
rnencement of the action or suit, or at any time thereafter and before
:lCull-la!,.
.
t> )luur. 110.
[urI gment, may l rave an ore1 er o f nttnc 1·nnent ngamst
t b e property of
~ ~.1•1/~1~· ~~.'
the defendant, on tiling with the clerk of the court in which such ac~:·hdi
ll:i,:!i'.!. tion or suit is about to he or is brought, his own affidavit or that of
l:!J;:;:g-A~1[.9··l0tt some credible person, stating the nature of the pluintitls claim and
lt~~;1~\·t.~. the amount, at the least, which the ntflant believes the plaintiff is
:J8:1:1:r'_·J,t~,._,,.,, justly entitled to recover in the action or suit, and also that the
nfflaut believes that some one or more of the following grounds exist
tM:ra_tt. M.~~l. for such attachment.
I w. \ 11. 115. a1.
:! w. ,·11. :!-1:!.
Fir.~t-Thnt the defendant, or one of the defendants, is a foreign
3 w.v., ue,
i; w. ,·11. :?-.!.
corporation, or is a non-resident of this Stnte ; or
i ~r:~::;: ~S,-co11d_:llas left: or is about to leave the ~lute, with intent to deA~~: fraud his creditors ; or
Tl,frd-~o conceals himself that a summons can not he served np~~ \\:.Va';. ~: on him; or,
v«. :1....,1. Pourtl,-Is
removing or is about to remove, his property (or the
i} \~_..,·,!/11H. proceeds of the sale of his property, or a material part of such propty, or proceeds) out of this ~late, so that process of execution on
a
_.,
. \ II.
4H.
·
54-0. !i!lo.
judgment
or
decree
in
such
net
ion
or
suit,
when
it
is
obtained,
will
:!6 \\". \"11. :l:!1.
'-'
.
.
:!7 w v», 314.
he una vailinzo. : or,
~ W \'11 I
::'fl ,~··. v;,. · ,ti".!. Pifth-Is
converting, or is about to convert, his property, or a
• 79· • 8:l.
• l
h
f .
. .
. b .mtent to r l e f rune1
:i:! ,, . v«, -11. oo. materia part t ereo , into money or securit.ies, wit
his creditors; or,
Si.rth-Has assigned or disposed of his property or a muterial part
thereof, or is about to do so, with intent to defraud his creditors; or,
,,·f'l',·11t/,-Has property or rights in action, which he conceals ; or,
Riy/,t/,-Frnu<lulently contracted the debt or incurred the liability
for which the action or suit i:-1 about to be or is brought .
. \nd unless the attachment is sued out upon the first of such
grounds, the afflant shall also state in his aftidnvit the material fads
re.lied upon by him to show the existence of the grounds upon which
his uppfiention for the uttachnu-nt is based. Hut upon ohjection to
the surfioieucy of such facts. th, nfliun! shull have th ri; .. ht. , it 1111
such time, not ex<.·vt•din~ t<.•11 day~. as may
·rih l b th
court, in which tlu- ac-t ion or ... u it is lH'1tdint!
t
uppl
nlllduvit, stating auy ot IH·r f:ids which ma· huvo ·< m • to hi
edge since the filing of t hv origi11:1l nllil avit, t n 1
rhi h
upon to show the <.•xi~!l'lll'<.' of such gr unr] : : nd h
supplementnl ufflduv it ... hn l l I>,• tuk n a.
(H rt ir n
!) w, \'11. :!'.!.
The order shal l be is ... u xl l>y tl.t ·l erk, and
HM follows:
Ar,t,.

tM.,. p. .i1.

:1 ~:~: ~~-. tit

/~ ~r~:;::

:~ ~r·.r~.·- ~~·.

i~.""·

~5·,,. .

Digitized by

Google

Cn. tur..
''..-\--RC--

D---.
~ •-::< ~
The plain: ~ .; - :_law, the ~L .... r-:~ ·' · :.!·
trict therein. :. · ~ :.! ·::i
of the !'tatt' r,: ·.-: -- -- -~ ---C-D--. ._.I.::
afflnnt state- ~!.i· ;·.: :
of this suit. ar» 1 11;:.i.·
the next term · ·~ · :..i- -court on t be -:: _w hich the aet i ..r, :· ·,:- ,· ~- ·
Wit1wss E,l --:\ nd such att!w !..UJ•·:

debt or cluim. k::..
upon any of t he ::.:: ,: ...
or deht he· not du-. !: · -That an uttaebnn-i.'

,. __ __

1:!

(iratt.

1:m.

\\.\a·.!::!?,

1 ~ \\:

\_a·-:;,.-;'95.

c I f '.!II \\ . \ a. a-,··

-··

I'

Of

.·1sPr
-;:tit l
Ill'

of

1Jl:ti11l'l,\'

or

such
:,·d out
rwurds
\\ lu-t.her
,1

.....

iL ·

bond, the sherin .,,
therein, to wbou, · ••
name of the :,,;taiµ , ,
session the e&"t.K;... '-- .,
pay the sum ol ia j
II·...-

ch.

I\ :t \\.\'a.~I.
1;, 1'!

rs ,

The plnintitt

!tr.I.

.:1).

:-: .... ·~- ch. trl8.
I \I 1111 I. 58,",,
' I ,i 1111,•r :J4.
l l:a 11<1. li.H.
' I ·; l.1·i:,!11 :illM,

~::

tion for a de lit ,,, .~ : 1 ••
porution, nor ag1i .11..:· ~
nn less t be nffiant h!J .. , ••
resident of thi~ .. -_~ • 1
plaintiff' believe .. i i,.. ,
ho gave the dt•fn,,ia1,
~. lf the plain: ~ f' 1.i
wards before jud!:11w1
sixth section of l!· ·• ~
follows:
''.\--ll--])

\•'h

-

such

, 1t

whose

, 11
1

o issue

i1:11Hls of

,·11 olllcor
J'o'l
I q •

ll1'11

fol't'

of
the

,·x1·Ppt to

if the
\ shall he
• ,1,1•r bond,
·, -ur-h time
:111d

: urn of

.\1·t~ 11()('!_ 1•11,
I~.
1:! lira II. r,.r,,.;_
thel!Hiratt. 61.

Digitized by

Google

744

ten.

ATTACHMENTS.

106.

this State; and several such orders may be issued and delivered to
different officers at the same or different times.
A1~1" 1867. ch.
3. On complaint by any lessor or his agent to a justice, that any
1114.
IHll9. p. roe.
person liable to him for rent, intends to remove, or is removing, or
l~il. ,·h. 131\.
IK't!. 1'11. l!'>R.
has within thirty davs removed his ertccts from the .leased premises,
a Uand. HK
if
h I essor, or~ I us
. agent, ma ke oath to the truth o f such comp I amt
.
II L•·i~h 1-19.
1 sue
,s..,·,·h.
r,o.
~
1\l!>t
l
I
f
I'
I
li
f
I
h
1
·
l
.
l
(
b
h
.. r I hi,- c·oll,·., o t ie iest o us le te , am to t · e rent w nc 1 rs reserver w et er
in money or other thing) and will he payable within one year, and
the time or times when it will he payable, and also make oath either
that there is not, or he believes, unless an attachment issues, there
will not be, left on such premises, property liable to distress sutflcicnt to satisfy the rent so to become payable, such justice shall, if
the rent so claimed exceed fifty dollars, exclusive of interest, issue
an order of attnchmcnt for the said rent against the personal estate
of the person so liable therefor, returnable to the next term of the
circuit court thereafter.
The order of attachment in such case shall
be in form or effect as follows:
''l>i.,itrict of---,
--County. to-wit:
A--B---,
Plaintiff, )
l·.oi.
( Order of Attachment.
C--D---,
Defendant. J
The above named plaintiff having filed with me the affidavit required
by law, the sheriff of the county of---,
or any constable therein
to whom this order may come is hereby required, in the name of the
State of West Virginia, to attach and take into his possession the
personal estate of the defendant, r--b---.
sufficient to pay
the sum of --dollars (the sum uttlunt states will he due), and
the costs of this attachment, and to muke return of his proceedings
under this order to the next term of the circuit court of the said
county.
Given under my hand this -day of---.
l4~--f'---,
J11sticr. ··
The defendant in an attachment issued under this section, may make
defence thereto in the same manner and to the snmo extent as in other
cases; and the same us to the rent claimed, shall he proceded in, tried
and determined, us if it were an originnl action brought in said court,
and the nllldavit and attachment shall tuke the pluce of a declaration
in the case.
And the affidavit in such cast' shall he.• returned to the
clerk of tho circuit court by the just.ice .
. \,·t,. ti«'!. ..i1.
4. The otfk-er to whom any attachment issued under this chapter
i:»i.
shall he delivered for execution, shall execute und return tho same
as thereiu required, and if he fail to do so, he nnd his sureties in his
olllciul bond shull he liable to the plaintiff in the case for all damages
.,, • .,. 1~.!. ,·h. he may sustain hy reason of such failure.
f~·ratt. i:m.
:,. Every attachment issued under tho provisions of this chapter,
lirnrt.
t-to. may he' levied upon any ostuto, n-ul or porsonnl. of the clt.•ft•t1tluut
11~.~~\\;r~.r::: ;.}i. named therein. or so much thereof ns is sutllcieut to p:ly the amount
1r,
for which it issues, except that an nuucluuent issued under the third
w

''·,·a.~...

Digitized by

Google

CH. 106.J

74!>

ATT ACIIMENTS.

section shall be levied on personal estate only. Tile plaintiff may,
by an endorsement on the order, designate any person as being
indebted to, or having in his possession, the effects of the defendant,
or one of the defendants; and in such case the clerk shall make as
many copies of the order as there are persons designated, with an
endorsement thereon that the person so designated is required to
appear at the next term of the court in which the action or suit is
pending, and disclose on oath in what sum he is indebted to the defendant, and what effects of the defendant he has in his hands; and
it shall he sufficiently levied on such person by delivering him a copy
of the order and endorsement, or by a service thereof upon him in the
same manner as a notice may by law be served ; and if the same he
levied upon real estate, it shall be sufficiently served by an endorsement thereon, or upon a paper annexed thereto, stating as near as
may he, the quantity, or the supposed quantity, and the location
thereof.
Attorhment lwud; its condition, etc.
6. But if the plaintiff shall, at the time of suing out such attach- Acts 187'1. ch.
ment, or afterwards, give bond with good security, approved hy the~::.!. ch. iris.
1111 r. 58,;,
.
.
l attne l iment, m
. a pena
.
I ty o f at I cast c1 ou bl e t l ie 6GiMlun-r
c I er k issuing
tie
:u.
.
t
.
l
1
·
.
t
11
l
4 Ra ml. J;iR.
amount o f t h e c l mm sworn o, wit 1 cont ition o pay a costs unr ; 1,,·h!l1 :ftJ!.
damages which may be awarded against him, or sustained by any ~:\~i\~!::~·
person by reason of the suing out of the attachment, and to pay to l~ t·~·ii:~~~95.
any claimant of any property seized or sold under or by virtue of :!9 w. v». r,:!'.!.
said attachment, all damages which he may recover in consequence of
such seizure or sale; and also to warrant and defend to any purchaser
of the properry, such estate or interest therein as is sold, the said
officer shall take possession of the property levied on by virtue of
such attachment. If such bond he given, no action shall be maintained against the officer levying such attachment upon property or
effects not belonging to the debtor, unless it shall appear that such
levy was wilfully and knowingly made. If the plaintiff has sued out
an order of attachment without giving such bond, and afterwards
give the same as aforesaid, it. shall be the duty of such clerk, whether
the attachment has been levied or not, to certify the fact that such
bond has been given to the oflleer who levied the same, or in whose
hands it was to he levied, or if he be absent or out of office, to issue
a new order of attachment and to place the same in the hands of
some other proper officer; und it shall be the duty of any such officer
to take the attached property into his possesslou and make return of
such order in like manner as if said bond had been given hefore the
issuing of the original attachment.
The defendant may except to
the said bond, or to the sutftcicncy of the security therein, and if the
exceptions he sustained by the court, the nttached 'property shall he
returned to the defendant unless the plaintiff give a proper bond,
with sufficient security, to he approved hy the court within such time
us the said court shall direct.
i~'.s I~!. r-h,
7. The officer serving the nttuchment shall make return of the 1;U~:~~~: ~~;.

Digitized by

Google

14G

.-\.'fTACIDfENTR.

time and manner of service on each person designated as being indebted to, or having in bis possession, the property of any such
defendant; and shall also return a list and description of the property taken (if any) under such attachment, and likewise the date of
the service, or execution thereof, on each person and parcel of
property.
H. Such attachment may be issued or executed on Sunday if oath
.\,·ts ,~:!. ,·h.
ll'lll.
he made that the defendant is actually removing his effects on that
day.
Atraclnucu! l ie«; r,pl,,1·.'li119; l.·u:ping ",. ,u:lli119 pl'opaty.
i~;'.~ JK!-C".!. •·It. ~- The plaintiff shall have n lien, from the time of the levying of
! 11. ,\: ,1. J">II. such attachment, or serving a copy thereof, as aforesaid, npon the
.1 \11111r. 1,14.
1:! I,•·hd• 406.
personal property, choses in action, and other securities of the de:! < i rn tt. :t'ill, 407.
•
•
~ <irntt.:!l'<ll. r,a:1. fondant against whom the claim is, in the hands of, or due from any
14 ( ; ru ti. !'l6:-I.
. I tee, on w l tom .it .is so serven,
~ an d on any rea I estate
I w. ,·11. rn.
sue l1 garms
46'
r), w
·
v».
I
·
I
1
.
.
l
f
f
h
.
B ut 1. f
"·· \11.:t!-1.a:t!. evier on ,y virtue t iereo , rom t e smug out o f t h e same.
x \\w.·' vu.
n t:la.
•
l >Y t I re p I ainti
. "tf , anu1 sue l1 persona 1 property c h oses
·.:.:;
tJ,o. no l iond 1oe gn·en
:.'6 w.v». :!W. in act1011, or other securities of the defendant, or any part thereof,
he sold or disposed of for a valuable consideration, the lien of the
attachment thereon shall cease aud determine from the date of such
sale or disposition.
A•·ts tAA:!. ch,
10. Any property levied on or seized as aforesaid, under any att58.
:i w. \'11. 18:t
tachment, where the plaintiff has given bond, may be retained by, or
~ w. \'11. :1:!'l.
returned to, the person in whose possession it was, on bis giving
bond, with condition to have the same forthcoming at such time and
place as the court may require; or the defendant against whom the
claim is, may release from any attachment the whole of the estate
nttuehed, by giving bond, with condition to perform the judgmeut
or decree of the court. The bond, in either case, shall be taken by
the officer serving the attachment, with security, payable to the plaintitf, and in a penalty, in the latter case, at least double the amount
or value for which the attachment issued, and in the former, either
double the same or double the value of the property retained or returned, at the option of the person giving it.
j~~~ !!:!!-'.!. ··I,.
11. Every such bond shall be returned by the officer to, and filed
hy, the clerk of the court in which the suit is pending, or to which
the attachment is returnable; and the plaintiff may, within thirty
<lays after the return thereof, file exceptions to the same, or to the
suttlciency of the security therein. If such exceptions be sustained,
the court shall rule the said officer to file a good bond, with sufficient
security. to be approved by it, on or hcfore a certain day to be fixed
by the court. lf he fail to do so, be and his sureties in his official
hond shall he liable to the plaintiff as for a breach of SU<'h bond.
But the otllcer shal] haw the same rights and remedies against the
parties to any bond so adjudged bad, as if be were a surety for them.
IJ.
1.:!. When any uttachment is sued out, either at law or in equity
(except :iguinst. non-residents l on such atfldavit as is mentioned iu
the first section of this chapter, although the property or estate at-

Digitized by

Google

Cn. 106.]

741

ATTACHMENTS.

tached, be not replevied as aforesaid, the interest and profits thereof,
pending the suit and before judgment or decree, may be paid to the9
defendant, if the court deem it proper; and at any time during such
period the court, or in vacation the judge thereof, may discharge the
attachment, as to the whole of the estate of the defendant against
whom the claim is, on his giving bond, with security, payable to the
plaintiff in a penalty double the value of such estate, with condition;
if judgment or decree be rendered for the plaintiff in said suit, to
pay the said value, or so much thereof as may be necessary to satisfy
the same.
Ia. All property seized under any attachment, and not replevied h.l.
or Rold before judgment, shall be kept in ·the same manner as similar
property taken under execution.
But such as is expensive to keep,
or perishable, may be sold.by order of the-court, or in vacation thereof,
by order of the judge; such sale to be made in the same manner as
if it were a sale under execution, except that where the claim for
which the attachment was sued out is not yet payable, or the court
or judge sees other reasons for directing a credit, the sale under this,
. or any other section of this chapter, shall he on credit until the time
it is payable, or such other time as the court or judge may direct,
and for the proceeds of sale, bond with good security shall be taken,
payable to the officer, for the benefit of the party entitled, and shall
be returned by the officer to the court.
Procn•di11g., trlur« t~11:r1· is " 9or11isltu.
H. When any garnishee shall appear he shall hr examined on ld.
.
b
.
.
I
.113Runtl.4:W.
oat l1. If it appear on sue· exnmiuation, or ,y 1.us answer to a bi s Grutt. 104.
.in equiit y, ti in t a t or a ft er th e service
. o f tl re a tt ac h ment lre was m• u
l:!Grntt.
uratt. 6&l.
MH.
b
I
I
.
t
h
tl
1
.
.
b
1
.
l
.
15
M.
l f em an t agams . w om ie c arm is, or ac m us pos- 2 w.Grutt,
< l e tel to t 1 ie le
v». +u1.
session or control, any goods, chattels! money, securities or other~
etf ects belonging to the said defendant, the court may order him to~
pay the amount so due hy him, and to deliver such effects to such 33 w.v». ;61
person as it may appoint us receiver; or such garnishee, with leave
of the court, may give bond, with sufficient security, payable to such
person and in such penalty as the court may prescribe, with condition to pay the amount due by him and have such erfects forthcoming
at such time and place as the court may thereafter require.
15. If any garnishee summoned as aforesaid, fail to appear in an Acts 188:.!. ch.
attachment at law, the court may either compel him to appear or hearf~t. Va.~proof of any debt due hy him to, or effects in bis hands of, the defendant in such attachment, and make such orders in relation thereto
as if what is so proved bad appeared in his examination.
1 H. When it is suggested by the plaintiff in any attachment at law .vcts IRS-.!. ch.
that the garnishee has not fully disclosed the debts.due by him to, rt.va.a28 . .W9.
or effects in his bands of, the defendant in such attachment, the -n w. Va. 314·
court shall cause a jury to he impaneled, without any formal pleadings, to inquire as to such debts and etfects, and proceed in respect
to any such found by the jury in the same manner as if they had been

~u::: ::

~n:::~/:~MJ.

Digitized by

Google

748

[CH. 106.

ATT ACIJlfENTS .

confessed by the garnishee.
If the verdict he in favor of the garnjshee, he shall have judgment for his costs against the plaintiff.
Ordn· of p11blicntio11; d1:fe11c,· to t/11• attucluneut ; jmlgmn,t.
Acts IAA.!, ch.
17. When any attachment, except under the third section, is re158.
9 w. \'a.·13. 6fl0. turned executed, an order of publication, as prescribed in chapter
14 w. \',1. al:!7.
.
one h um l rer1 ancl twenty-four, sha l l be made agamst
the d efen d ant
against whom the claim is, unless he has been served with a copy of
the attachment or with process in the suit in which the attachment
issued.
~~s
IRS:!. ch.
18. Either the defendant in any such attachment, or any garuiUlhnn 14:!.
shee,
or any party to any forthcoming or replevy bond given as afore:? Lei~h :!:>.
said, or the officer who ma)' be liable to the plaintiff by reason of
such bond being adjudged bad, may make defence to such attachment, but the attachment shall-not thereby be discharged or the property levied on, released.
l ff. The right to sue out an attachment may be contested, and
Acts !AA'.?. ch.
158.
e H. ,\: M. :nl. when the court is of opinion that the facts stated in the affidavit were
9 Ll'i~li 1411.
I:! w.v«. r,:.'tl. not sufficient to authorize the issuing thereof, or that the aftldavit iR
14 w. \"11. :.'9n.
:.>u w.v». 4:'ill. otherwise insufficient. judgment. shall he entered that the attachment
he quashed. If the defendant desire to controvert the existence of
the grounds for the attachment stated in the atfldavit, he may file a
plea in nbntement denying the existence of such grounds, and the
issue on such plea shall he tried by a jury, unless the same he waived
hy the parties. The affirmative of such issue shall he with the
plaintiff; and if he fail to prove tothe satisfaction of the jury, the
existence of the grounds denied hy the defeudant, the verdict shall
.be for the defendant, and judgment shall he entered that the uttnchment he abated, But the court may grant new trials as in other
cases.
When the attachment is properly sued out, and the case heard
upon its uu-rits, if the court be of opinion that the claim of the plaintiff is not established, final judgment shall he given for the defendant.
In either case the defendant shull rec-over his costs, and there
shall he an order for the restoration to him of the attached t!tft>C'ts .
.\,·,~ ,~:.. p. :.>o.
20. If the claim of the plulntitf in any Huit or proceeding under
:~~;.·1;·~~:-!_:v.1. this chapter he estnhlished, [urlgmeut or decree shall be rendered for
~ ~::'.'.',~: ~~;.
him, and tho court shall order the sale of any real or personal estate
=:.}t:.f~,?~/19· levied upon under and hy virtue of any such attachment, which shall
not have been previously sold or replevied under this chapter, and
~/;~~1~:- .. a.;f,\l.
direct the proceeds of the sale of such property and whatever else the
~J\{,\t}oo:i. attachment hus heen levied upon, including what is embraced hy such
replevy or forthcoming bond, to he npplied in satisfaction of such
judgment or decree. But no real estate shall he sold under such
order until all other property und mont>y so levied on as aforosaid.
has been exhausted, and then only so much thereof us is necessary
to pny the judgment or decree.
·,';;,'.t ~.~:-;·\;~·. ·.?O. :! 1. Whou :L sale of real estate is so ordered, tho court shall preI:! w.v». 1.
scribe in the order, the terms of such sale and the ottleer or person
:!7 w.
rn,. by whom it shall he made.
Tho otll<"cr or person waking such sale

I Ur':::::~:~.

,·a.

Digitized by

Google

CH. 1 os. J

749

ATTAtm1lolNTS.

of real estate, shall report to the court which ordered the sale, the
real estate so sold by him, with the name of the purchaser, the sum
for which it sold, and the time and place of such sale. The court
for good cause, may refuse to confirm the sale, and order the property to be re-sold; but if good cause for setting the sale aside he not
shown, the court shall confirm the same, and shall direct a deed of
conveyance of the real estate so sold, to he made to the purchaser
thereof, hy the officer or person who sold the same, or by a special
commissioner, appointed for that purpose, whenever the purchase
money thereof, with its interest, shall have been fully paid.
An
officer heretofore or hereafter directed by the .court to make such
conveyance, may make the same in his official character, nothwithstanding bis term of office shall have expired. And in case of the
death, removal, inalulity, or failure or refusal to act, of the officer
or person heretofore or hereafter appointed to make any such sale or
conveyance, before the same is made, the circuit court of the county
in which such judgment, decree or order was rendered or made, may
appoint a special commissioner to make such sale or conveyance, or
both, as required hy such judgment, decree or order.
Wlrnn pl11.int1".ff m.u»! gine l,o"'l h,fort' sale.
tt. But if the defendant whose real estate is attached has not ap- .\1'1" 1882, di.
peared in the action or suit, or been served with a copy of the at-~~\·. Ya. 130.
taehment sixty days before such judgment, decree or order, no sale '.!".Z w. vs. rt70.
of the real estate so attached shall be made until the plaintiff or
some one for him, shall give bond, with sufficient security, in such
penalty us the court shall approve, with condition that the plaintiff
will perform such future order as may be made by the court in the
nction or suit, in case the defendant appear and make defence therein
within the time prescribed hy law: Prorulcs}, That after the right of
a defendant to appear and make defence in any such action or suit
shall have expired by limitation or otherwise, as prescribed in this
chapter, a sale of such real estate may be made under the judgment,
order or decree, whether such bond has been given or not. If personal property he levied upon, and ordered to be sold, where there
has been no such appearance or service of the attachment, as aforesaid and no bond has been given by the plaintiff as provided in section six of this chapter, the court shall require such bond to he
given by the plaintiff, and if the plaintiff, or some one for him, fail
to give such bond within a reasonable time, the court shall dispose
of such property, or the proceeds thereof, as to it shall seem just.
P,·tiliuu tli.,;p11ti119 pl,,iutij)''s claim, etc.
23. Any person interested may file his petition at any time before i~~s tAA'.!. ch.
the property attached, as the estate of a defendant, is sold under theGilnwr 142.
·
6 Grutt. 90. lOo.
decree or judgment. or if the proceeds of the sale have not been paid 4 W.\"11. 130.
, W. v». 68'.!.
over to the plaintiff, or his nssigns. within one year after such sale, 1~ ,~·. ','u. 130.
diisputing
.
l
1·
1·
f
h
I
.
.
.
.
h
h
·
t ie va 101tv o t e P uintitf s attac went t ereon, or stating la\\.,,l.~.
iew. \"n.m.,87.
a claim thereto, or an interest in or lien on the same, under any :!IJ w. \'ll. :t.!4.

Digitized by

Google

750

[Cn. 106.

ATTACHMENTS.

other attachment or otherwise, and its nature, and upon giving security for costs, the court without any other pleading, shnll impanel a
jury to inquire into such claim, and if it he found that the petitioner
has title to, or lien on, or any interest in such property or its proceeds, the court shall make such order as is necessary to protect his
rights; the costs of which inquiry shall he paid by either party, at
the discretion of the court.
Pri ori! !I

,if

att ach me ut s,

24. The attachment first served on the same personal property, or
on the person having such property in his possession, shall have
~t;:':,'t': :m:.JM. priority of lien; and the officer making the levy, shall note OU the
10 ur11t1. :!!«.
order of attachment, tbe day• and hour at which the levv•. is made.
4 \\'. Vu. l:lO.
re w. ,·11. rrt, Prorid o], Thut where two or more attachments are delivered to the
7H7·
same oflicer at different times to he served, he shall serve them in
the order in which he receives them, and when they arc delivered at
the same time, they shall be served at the same time and he sntisfled
pr" rutn out of the proceeds of the attached property.
A~ts

1~:!.

ch.

1:'!8r· •• ,1 • .,.,
1 '" AU:! I ..,..,.

R,·-l1n1ri11g afff'r Jud!1nu·11t or decree,
25. If a defendant against whom, on publication, judgment or
decree has been or shall hereafter he rendered, in an action or suit
in which nn attachment has been or may he sued out aml levied as
:Himtt. \18.
provided
in this chapter, or his personal representntives, shall return
II lirntt. 4-1:!.
~ \r•t!/~~-1. to or appear openly in this State, he may, within one year after a
~~\i;a.198.a11. copy of such judgment or decree has been or shall be served upon
j}i·.
v·a.21H.M:J. him, at the instance of the plaintiff,
or within five years from the
.1,H.
o ,,. ·. ,·~· 1~n; date of such judgment or decree, if he he not so served, petition to
:lo \\ . \ a .• iu.
:!t w. \"11. :!fl(\. have the proceeding re-heurd.
On gffing security for the costs which
:!! w. \'11. IMO.
•.
:!Ti w, v». r.w. have accrued and shall thereafter accrue, such defendant shall be
admitted to make defence against such judgment or decree. as if he
had appeared in the case before the same was rendered, except that
the title of any lnnu: jirl,, purchaser to any property, real or personal.
sold under such attachment, shall not be brought in question or impeached.
But this section shall not upply to UIIJ case in which tho
petitioner, or his decedent, was served with :1 c·opy of the uttnchment.
or with process in the snit wherein it issued, more than sixty days
hefor« tho date of tho judgment or decree, or to a case in which he
appeured uud made defence.
.\d,.

t~d.'i. p. 21.

\~~t ~t· Jft
lt,~Lti. ~"t.

J,,,lym,,111
'"""' JH1i:,. 11. :!:1.

~~~,--<t/~~1.

fl/',!,,,.,.,.,.

011 ,·r-l,,·ori11.q.

iH. On uny re-hearing or new trial had under the preceding 8<'<'tion of this chapter, if the judment or docreo be for the defeudunt.
the court may order the pluintitl in the orig inn] suit or his personal
representative, to restore any money paid him under his judgment or
«lC'<'rC'(' therein. with interest from the dul<• of such order, to the
defendant, or his personal represeututive, entitled thereto, and may
enter n judgment or dN•rpe against him therofor ; und if the defenduut or his personal representative, fail to recover 011 such re-bearing

Digitized by

Google

CH. 106.]

751

ATT ACIUIE~TS.

or new trial, the original judgment or decree shall he confirmed; and
in either case the cost shall be adjudged to the prevuiling party.
lYl,crf! rl,111w.qn1 og11i11xt 1,lai11t/tf:

11ppntl from Jmlgmc11t; how lnnul«
are gir,·11 i11 uttuch uunt cax1'..~.
'
' any case ·Ill w Iuc
· l1 proper t y is
· Jal!.
.\l'tlii
I~.!. ch.
:.>-, . If , upon f le f ence I ,emg
mac l e III
•
,
2 \\'. \'a. 2-t:!.
seized under an attachment, that the attachment was sued out without
sufflcient cause, it be found either hy the court, or by the [ury, if
one he impaneled, that the defence is well founded, judgment may be
entered for the defendant against the plaintiff for the damages sustained by the defenduut by reason thereof.
28. Where judgment or decree in favor of the plaintitf is rendered i~'." I~..!. ch.
in any case in which an attachment is sued out, and on appeal therefrom, an appeal bond is given with condition to prosecute the appeal
with ctfect, or pay the debt, interest costs and damages, as well as
the costs of the appeal, the officer in whose custody any attached
property may be, shall deliver the same to the owner thereof.
~U. Any bond uuthorized or required by any section of this chap-J'h. ,\ '.\I. :JOR.
te r, may IJe given
.
.
If or lJY any ot I rer person. 37 L•+•h
7111
eit. lrer l •Y t h· e party l muse
1,,.i~h 31~:
Ii Ci run. 00.

A r res t of ,I ~fnulo It I.

HO. An order for the arrest of a defendant in an action or suit, i~'." 188"..!, ch.
may he made by the court in which the action is pending, or by the~~\~~~\'.~;.~.
judge or clerk thereof in vacation, upon the affidavit of the plniutiftse w.v«. 1:ro.
or any credible person, showing to the satisfactiou of the court, or
judge, or clerk thereof in vncution, the nature and justice of the
plaintiff's claim, the amonnt which the atfiant believes the plaintiff
is entitled to recover in the action, and the existence of some one
or more of the following grounds for the arrest of the defendant:
Pirst-'fhat the defendant has removed, or is about to remove,
any of his property out of the State with intent to defraud his creditors; or
SPcowl-That he has converted or is about to convert his property or uny part thereof into money or securities with like intent; or
Tltird-'fhat he has assigned, disposed of or removed bis property or any part thereof, or is about to do so with like intent; or
P()urt/1-That be has property or rights in action which he fraudulently conceals; or
Piftl,-That
he fraudulently contracted the debt or incurred the
liability for which the action or suit is brought; or
Si.rtlt-That he is about to leave the State and reside permanently
in another state or .conn try, without paying the debt or liability for
which the action or suit is brought.
31. When sufficient cause shall he shown for the arrest of a defendant as aforesaid, such court, judge or clerk shall make an order i~~'.,; 1~· ch.
directing the defendant to be arrested, and held to bail
such sum ~a'k~~·\/1:~.
as the said court, judge or clerk shall think fit, and the plaintiff shall 3'~ w. Vu. tlOO.
thereupon deliver to the clerk of the court in which the action is

for

•
Digitized by

Google

752

Acti- 1800.tt~·

Wt,· \\.1ooi3.

. \Cl!' 1882, ch.
I~.
10 Gratt. 641.

pending, a bond in a penalty double the amount sworn to, executed
by himself, or some person for him, with one or more sufficient securities, to the effect that the plaintiff will pay the defendant all
damages he may sustain by reason of the arrest, should it thereafter
appear that the order was wrongfully obtained.
B2. Upon the delivery of the bond mentioned in the preceding
section, the clerk shall issue an order for the arrest of the defendant
in form or in substance as follows:
1•A-B---, Plaintiff, )
c«.
l Order of arrest.
C-D---,
Defendant,
\
To the sheriff of the county of---:
You are hereby required
in the name of the State of West Virglnin, to arrest the defendant,
C-I>---,
and commit him to the [ail of the said county of
---,
to be there safely kept, unless or until he shall give a bond,
with good security, in the penalty of --· dollars, conditioned uccording to law, and that you return your proceedings under this
order to tile next term of the circuit court of said county.
Witness E-F---,
clerk of the said court, this -day of
E-F----.
f 'hr!.·.:
Under such order, the defendant against whom it issues, shall
he arrested and committed to jail, unless bond be given in the sum
specifled therein, with sufficient security, that in case there shall in
the action or suit he any judgment, decree or order on which a writ
of Jini f"ci"·" may issue, and within four months after such judgment, decree or order is rendered or made, interrogatories he filed
under the fourth section of chapter one hundred and forty-one, with
a commissioner of the court wherein such judgment, decree, or order
is, the defendant will, at the time the commlssroner issues a sumruous
to answer such interrogatories, be in the county in which such commissioner may reside, and will, within the time prescribed in such
summons, file proper answers upon oath to such interrogatories, and
make such conveyance and delivery as is required hy the said chapter, or in case of failure to fill' such answer and make such conveyunce and delivery, that the said defendant will perform and satisfy
the said judgment, decree or order.

aa.

J>rul't't'tling.'I to olitain
Act"

IN!.

Id.

[CH. 106

A. TT ACHllESTS.

IIVI!.

,•h.

di,'ll'!1t1rg,·:

pror,··"·" lo f't111tprl di1wlm111r,• '!( cstntr,

:H. The defendant arrested under such order may, at any time
pending the ease. give bond to the offlcer making the arrest. ~uch
bond shall he taken hy said officer and returned hy him to the clerk
of the court from which the order issued, and the same shall be filed
in said clerk's office.
ar,. If the defendant gives such bond. or he committed to [ail for
want of it, the court in which tho case is pending. or the judge thereof
in vacation, may. after reasonable notice to the plaintiff'. or his attorney or counsel. quash the order and discharge the defendant from
custody, or discharge the bond on heing satisfied that the same 1''8S

Digitized by

Google

CH. 107.]

753

INTERPLEADER.

wrongfully obtained; and, whether the order was so obtained or not,
may discharge him from custody when the plaintiff is cast in the
action or suit.
36. While a defendant is in custody, whether under an arrest W·urntt. Ml.
made heretofore or hereafter, the plaintiff, without ha Ying a judgment
against the defendant, may file interrogatories to him in like manner
as might he done under the fourth section of chapter one hundred
and forty-one, if such judgment had been obtained and a fiai fucia«
thereon delivered to an officer. And the court wherein the case is
pending, or a [udge or a commissioner thereof, after reasonable notice to the plaintiff. or his attorney or counsel, may discharge the defendant from custody, unless interrogatories he filed within such time
as the said court, judge or commissioner may deem reasonable; or,
though interrogatories he filed, may dischnrge him when proper answers thereto are filed and proper conveyance and delivery made.
37. The officer making the arrest shall he the otflcer to whom the .\d!' 18>!2. ch.
conveyance shall be made.
The interrogatories, answers and report rss.
of the commissioner shall he returned to the court in which the case
is pending, and filed in the papers of such case. And the said court
may make such order as it may deem right as to the sulo and proper
application of the estate conveyed and delivered under the preceding
section.

CHAP'flm cvn.
1 .\,.. Hll11'1tcll•cl urul rP·1·11ar1.. ,I.

OF ('OSJ,'LICTISO C'I..\B(:,;

SY.c
I. J>r,,.,i•,•cliui,t~ wlwrc• clc•fPIHl1111t ,lli-c!lnims
1111~· inti,r,,,..1 in th» sult ; how rii.:ht of
third p11 rt.v is t rh•cl.
!!. W h--n ntlie••r ma.,· ,t,·1111111,l i11cl1•11111if~·[ lni: b111HI: by whom lm11tl i.tin•u 1111,l
3.' 1.'011C1itlo11 .. r.

o~, OR I:'\ ro~:-n:ssION

,~:~·r,~~~~~:;tJ:~{!~

or this chaptn,
,.,.,.
l o<l1• \·11.
1800. eh. !:'I:!. For
-t. S11"'l"'ncli111? hone!: proc1•Nli11i,:i- tlwr,•011. Furt ln-r r••f•·rr,. I ("0111lic•tit1J.! C"luilll" lo pro1H•rty h-vlvd ''.ll<'l'S. ,Wt' IWC·
It i
011: how I rit"cl.
I 1011:<.
7. I Forthc'.nlllilll! hn11tl: ,..a),, of proJJ1•rty
"4.\ imlc>1111till1•cl.,\:c'..

01-· c\ TIIIRU

t

S•••• .\c•t... I~.!. c·h. i!!.1

TO PRO PERT\" r.svreu
PARTY.

0

SY.c.

1 · A defendant in un action brouuht
against him for the recovery 6W.Va.5:.!5.
.\cts 188:!.,·h.7:!.
~
of money, which he docs not wish to defend, but which money is HI w. v«. 75.
21'1 w. \"11. 3t0,
claimed by a third pt•rson, or for the recovery of the possession of i50.
personal property to which he makes no claim, hut which is claimed
hy a third person, mny file his nffldnvit stnting the facts in relation
thereto, and that he does not collude with such third party, but is
ready to pay the money claimed, or deliver the property to the owner
thereof, as the court may direct, the court may thereupon, make an
order requiring such third party to appear and state the nature of his
claim, and maintain or relinquish the same, and in the meantime
stay the proceedings in such action.
If such third party on heing
served with a copy of such order, shall not appear, the court may,
on proof of the plaintitt's right, render judgment for him, and declare such third party to he forever barred of nny claim in respect of
the subject matter, either against the plaintiff or the original defendnnt, or his personal representative.
If such third party, on being so served, shall appear, the court shall allow him to make him-

Digitized by

Google

754

[CH. 107.

l NTERPLEADER.

self defendant in the action, and, either in said action or otherwise,
cause such issue or issues to he tried as it may prescribe, and may
direct which party shall be considered the plaintiff in the issues; and
shall give judgment upon the verdict rendered, or, if a jury be
waived by the parties interested, shall determine their claims in a
summary way. The court may also make such order for the disposition of the money or property which is the subject matter of the
action, pending the same; us to it may seem proper.
I,,,/nn11if11i11.<1 l,,,wl-u:/w11 it m".'I /,,, rn111irrd, de.
Adi< tl!fl'i.,~h.i:!.
~- 1f anv officer levy or is required to levy an execution or a war~ :\lnnr. 32.
•
•
,&lhrnd. s.
rant of distress on property, and u doubt shall arise whether the said
t:? J,,·hch:183.ttH.
. ·~ hiis agent,
I tirntt. :?8'l.
property .is l in1> I e to sue h 1·evv, h e mnv give to the p l aintitt,
:? <.ratt. tt\.'t:!64.
•
I
.
h.
. -rl
.f .
l
l .
. d .
14 Grutt. ~or attornev-at- aw, notice t ut an m emm ying >On< is require 111
:! \\'. Va. -IDI.
h
J>
..l
I
•
l.
·
h
1•
12 ":.
716. t e case.
sonn may t iereupon ue gn·en ,y any person, wit goo d
23 \\ . \ It. WI.
•
J.R
•
security, pnyar hi e to t h e orncer.
m
a pena l ty equa I to (1 on bl e t h e va I ue
of tho property, conditioned to indemnify him ugainst ull damages
which he may sustain in consequence of the seizure or sale of said
property. and to any claimant of said property all damages which he
may sustain in consequence of such seizure or sale; and also to warrunt and defend, to any purchaser of the property, such estate or interest therein as is sold .
.,\ct,- 1~:!.di.r..?.
3. If such bond he not given within a reasonable time after such
; ~;',~·sn~:56· notice, the officer may refuse to levy on such property, or restore it
2
Lei,.ch Mt.
to the person from whose possession it was taken, as the case may
be. If it be given, where there has been no levy, within a reasonable time, or after a levy, before the property is so restored, it shall
he returned within twenty days to the clerk's office of the circuit court
of the county in which such property may be and the claimant or
purchaser of such property shall, after such bond is so returned, he
barred of any action against the officer levying thereon, provided the
security therein be good at the time of taking it.

,:a.

S"·"P''11di11y l11111d, ,·I<'.
;\•·!, 1~:c~.r.?.
4. But the sale of any such property shall he suspended nt the in; ~.~~.t'~~'iff. stance of any claimant thereof, who shall deliver to the officer hood
; {(1~~-~with good security, in a penalty equal to double the value thereof,
:r~ w. v«. -f:3:!. payable to said officer, conditioned to pny to all persons who may be
injured by suspending the sale thereof, until the claim thereto can
he adjusted, such damages as they may sustain hy such suspension.
IT pon nny such bond as is mentioned in this <V the preceding section,
suit may he prosecuted in the name of the officer, for the benefit of
the claimant, creditor, purchaser, or other person injured, and such
damages recovered in said suit -as a jury may assess.
The sumo
may be prosecuted, and execution had: in name of such officer. when
be is dead, in like manner as if he were alive.
C1111Jficti11!/ claim it lo proprrf.'I l,,rit-d 1111; lune tried .
.-\Otll 188:!.1'11. i:!.
:,. When the property of the value of more than fifty dollars is
taken u_nder a warrant of distress, or when property of uny value is

Digitized by

Google

CH. 107.J

755

lNTERPLEADER ..

taken under an execution issued by the clerk of the court, and any
person other than the party ngninet whom the process issued, claims
such property, or the proceeds or value thereof, the circuit court of
the county in which the property is taken, or the judge thereof in
vacation, upon the application of the otflcer, where no indemnifying
bond has been given, or if one has been given, on the application of
the person who claims such property and has given such suspending
bond as is mentioned in the next preceding section, may cause to appear before such court, as well the party issuing such process, as the
party making such cluun ; amt such court may exercise, for the decision of their rights, all or any of the powers und authority prescribed
in the first section of this chapter.
ti. Such court, on the application of the party issuing said process, J'L·i1.?h rsa
may cause to appear before it the party making such claim, and may 3J w ·
u,a.
exercise the like powers and authority.
1 n such case as is mentioned
in this or the preceding section, the con rt, where no bond is given
for the forthcoming of the property, or the judge thereof in vacation,
may, before a decision of the rights of the parties, make an order
for the sale of the property, or any part thereof, on such terms as
the court or judge may deem advisable, and for the proper application of the proceeds according to the said rights.
In any case before
• mentioned in this chapter, the court may make all such rules and
orders, and enter such judgment as to costs and all other matters, us
may be just and proper.

,·a .

Fortl1crn11i11g boiul: sal» rl prop,-rl!f which ix iwl1·111111)frd. rte.
7. The sheriff or other officer levying a writ of .fi,·ri .f,1ci11s or dis- Acts
tress warrant on property, the sale of which is suspended under this
chapter at the instance of a claimant thereof, may, if such claimant
desire the property to remain in such possession as it was immediately before the levy, and if the case he one in which a bond for the
forthcoming of the propertyis not prohibited from being taken from
the debtor, by the seventh section of chapter one hundred and fortytwo of this code, take from the claimant a bond, with sutflcicnt surety, payable to the creditor, with such recital as is required in a bond
taken from the dehtor and with condition that the property shall be
forthcoming at such day and place of sale as may be thereafter lawfully appointed, whereupon, such property may be permitted to remain at the risk of such claimant, in such possession as it was immediately before the levy; and the provisions of the snid chapter
shall apply to such a bond in like manner as to a bond taken from a
debtor.
8. When property, the sale of which is indemnified, sells for more Id.
than enough to satisfy the execution or distress warrant under which
it is taken, the surplus shall be paid hy the officer into the court to
the office whereof the indemnifying bond is required to he returned
or as such court may direct. The said court may make such order
for the disposition thereof, either temporarily until the question m;

Digitized by

1~..:.ch.i:!.

Google

756

[CH. 108.

AWARDS.

to the title of the property sold is determined, or absolutely, as in respect to the rights of those interested may seem to it proper.

CH.APTER CVI 11.
fAs a11w11,lt·•l 1111«1 rP-+•n:wt,•,I.

S•·•· .\..ts

18~. ,•h. 63.)

l''or rorin..r law

ot,• AWARHS.
nn thr ;111hj1•ct
of this chs pn-r.
s1•,• ('od,· Vu, S.:.-.
SE('
3. .\ w11r«I «uu-r.. d 11,; Jmli:nwnt of court;
18ti0, ch.14:l. For I. S11h111issio11 mad•· 11 rul« or court, utul
otlll"r r .. r,·r,·11pro,·,·,·,li11:.?" 1,..r .. r,· 11r1Ji1ra111rs: t h .. ir
1·0111111•11,-:ition of11rhi1rators.
c•P!-- toif"P sc·eu warrl.
4. l•'or what c1111s1•s 11w11rd muv lw s,•tll"itlt•.
a. F'iduviurv
mn v ,-11h111it t,; arbitrutton.
I ions.
:?. Su h111is,-io11 irr,•vm:~tl,1<·; powPr or 1·011rl
,\c.
.
.
ovr-r it.

1. Persons desiring to end any controversy, whether there be a
snit pending therefor or not, mn.y submit the same to arbitration, and
agree that such submission may be entered of record in any court.
•
!,:!
!W-l. t pon proof of such agreement, out of court, or by consent of the
- \\.
\ II. :!97.
•
•
•
•
l
l . h II be enteree l .m
4 w. ,·a.~. wtt. parties grven in court. m person or >y couuse , it s a
taw.,·u.t:t.?.I9a.
w. ,·11. 390. t h e proceec 1·mgs o f sue 1 1 cour t ; an d t h ereupon a ru l e s h a 11 l ,e ma d e,
fo'~·,:.'~\/f;i. that the parties shall submit to the award which shall he made in
l~
pursuance of such agreement.
And when a pending cause is sub~ ~r_ \.=i';. tsi8. mitted to arbitration, the defendant may make any defence to the
plaintiff's claim or demand, that be could make under any proper
~\·.
,.11• ~~.
plea filed in court, whether such plea has been filed or not, by giving
~ ~~:: ~::~: ;f· to the plaintiff reasonnble notice in writing of the. nature and charaoter of his defence; and in a suit for any debt, he may at the trial
before the arbitrators, prove and huve allowed against such debt, any
payment or set-off', whether before that time pleaded or not, or
whether an account of sct-otf has before that time been filed or not,
which he may plend or file hefore the arbitrators in such manner as
to give the plaintiff notice of its nature, but not otherwise .. \.lthough
the claim of the plaintiff he jointly against several persons and the
set-otf is of a debt, not to all, hut only to a part of them, this section
shall extend to such set-off, if it appear that the persons against
whom such claim is, stand in the relation of principal and surety,
and the person entitled to the set-otf is the principal.
And when the
defendant is allowed to file and prove an account of set-off to the
plaintiff's demand, the plaintiff shall he allowed to file and prove an
uccount of counter set-off', and make such other defence as he might.
have made bad an original action been brought upon such sct-otf ;
and upon the trial the arbltrators shall ascertain the true state of indebtedness between the parties, and the award shall be rendered aecordingly .
. \,·t,- 1AA·! . ..t,.is:J.
~- No such submission,
entered or agreed to be entered of record,
a 1 ·1111 -1:i1.
I
-1 w. v«. -100.
in any court, shall ht-> revocnh e hy unv party to such submission.
in w. ,·11. rn.
. r, •
I
l
f
h
. l1 court
~
.
:!-& w. ,·a. 31-17. without t ie eave o sue
court; anrl sue
may, f rom tune
~o
time, enlarge the term within which un award is required to be made .
. \.-rs lloi7i.l'h.~-&.
a. Upon the return of any~ such awurd. made under such an agree1i.>1:!. ch. 6..1.
t wn-.h. ta t!ill. ment (whether
any previous record of the submission or u rule there.
:.'\)0 31.)3
•
11·;,11:nP.
upon bas lu-en made or not). it shall he entered up as the judgment
2 I '1111 4.1:l.
•
•
3 l'ull aoo.
or decree of the court, unless good cause be shown ngamst tt at the

.\t-t" 1~.?.<'h.is:J.
:! ( 'nil lOll.
,1 ~11111r. -1n:l
4 H111ul. lm.
o Lt·hrh o~.
91,•·hdr 1-t:!.
1_,•·i~h

~r ~:~: ~\

i~ ~r}:'.~:.%t

Digitized by

Google

CH.

109.J

~IA'SDA)fUS

AND

Quo

w ARRANTO.

757

~r,
!J:

first term after the parties have been summoned to show cause against~ U: :~ ;tl:
it. And the court shall muke to such arbitrators such reasonahle~ ~1~'r~'if:
allowance for their services as it may deem proper, to he taxed in :i Rune!.:!. 94.
-tR1111<1.95.:!75.
the costs of the suit or proceeding, when no provision is made for the Ii Rand. a:..,g.
,
•
• ·
.
•
I~ Ll'ighfif,O.
pay of the arbitrators in the arbitration agreement, or to he otherwise s w. \'11. 4~.
paid as the court may direct.
-l. No such award shall be set aside, except for errors apparent on .\,~1s 1~ • ..i1.6.1·
. f ace, un ] ess it. appears to h ave 1 ieen procure d l>y corrup titon or ,I 11.
II.,\ ~I. tli.
its
,\: ~t. -t™.
other undue means, or hy mistake, or that there was partiality or~
M. .
misbehavior in the arbitrators, or any of them.
But this section 1
136.
shall not be construed to take away the power of courts of equit.y1}t:.r!1hti'!0n.
over awards.
~ (!rnt1..1s.1.
hC,ratl..~I.~.
5. Any personal representative of n decedent, guardian of an infant,:~~~::~~--~.ti84.
committee of an insane person, or trustee, may file his petition in~~~:: ~:::: ~:
the circuit court of the county in which he qualified or was appointed, ~
asking permission from such court to submit to arbitration any sutt ce w. ,·11. 698.
or matter of controversy touching the estate or property of such ., .. 1,. 11-1~ • .,1a.t1.1.
•
•
•
•
6 )t 1111r. al-t.
decedent, infant, insane person, or 111 respect to which he is trustee. u 1,,•i:.!h ti:!.
hi
}
•
.
h
11
l
l
}
f
hi
b
h
.
Je stater t ie acts upon w ic t e peti-eeII (ir1111.
w. v».i!lt41',.
l n w ic 1 petition s a
tioner seeks the permission of the court; the court muy in its discretion grant or refuse. the prayer of the petition. If the petition is
filed in good faith, and the petition is grunted hy the court, an order
showing that permission to arbitrate was grunted, shall be entered
on the chancery order book of the court, and the award made in any
such case shall be binding upon all the parties in interest, and shall
be entered as the judgment of the court in the same manner as other
sulnnissions and awards are entered, unless set. nside by the court.
If the petition is filed in good faith and there was no fault or neglect
on the part of the fiduciary, he shall not he responsible for any loss
sustained by an award adverse to the interests of his want insane
person or beneficiary under any snch trust.

~:::~r

l~:~t~'t.-:it

~t ~:: : ~:

(.\" am••ntl«•d

CHAPTER CIX.
an,I r•··•·nnl'tPcl.
s.. , .. \els

OF TIIF. WRIT Of,' :\I.\SDA:\IUS
Sze.

I

St:c.
:\l11nd1111111s: r<''11r11
plt•11,li11.r" th,·r,•011.

~;. f
!· ;_ What

11

... 1

6.

i.
H.

to

th»

writ

10.

j111h:11w111 to l1t• r•·n,l<·r,.,l.

Q.uo wurru nt«: in whnt 111111w a,\\nrd,•d
u ud 111,minsl whom.
.\pplit~11tlo11
for writ: wln-u u nd how
IIIILllt'.

Wht•n

9.

1111<1

uud how writ to js,..u,•.

11.

I

I:.!.

t:·t

I~:!. l'h. 109. I

.\SI> Ql."O W .\RR.\STO.

J1~~~:rr'11:i1:::11
11

'I""

in t lu- 11atur1•or writ of
For rorm"r law
· .
ns to mn adn mor writ or ,.11111111011": how 11111111~ ... e ... Cod» \'a.
nn whom 1111111,·.
186(1 •h I~ f<'
Pru,·,·•:•li Ill.!" 011 writ or i II forma I ion uf tr-r O I h·~ r · ~ ,; r ,.·~~
s"rn,•,· t lu-r .. ol.
TrrnL\'t•rclkt u nd jtuh!mt•ut.
~·!le~~. !'\t_•t.• ~t·c.\ ppniut nu-ut or r,,,·,.in•r of prop•·rty or
e11rpor1111,111: whvn.
.
. ri
~··n-w,·

Jfa wl,,mus.

1011"·

Coust.181.i:i,

art.

I. When a writ of 111tt11d,n1111s is issued, the return thereto shall ~-.~;1?:i·. IHi'J,art.
state, plainly and concisely. tbe matter of law or fact relied on in opposi- \ii.\} 'ii~. eh.
tion to the complaint.
·
1011.
JOCimlt. 11."lO.
2. The complainant may thereupon demur to the return, or plead 11 (;r1111. a.-,.,-••
specially thereto, or both.

Digitized by

Google

758

)IAND.unrs

ANO Quo WARRANTo.

[CH. 109.

:1. The defendant may reply to, take issue on, or demur to the
of the complainant.
r,_w.
yu
..
r,1:!.
-1.
lf a verdict he found, or a j udgment be rendered for the person
I,\\,
\11. Mlfi.
tl:!8..
suing
out the writ, on demurrer or bv
«i! dicit, or for want of a rep.\ct,.. 188:!, ,.·h.
~
100.
lication or other pleading, he shall recover his costs, and such damI l'.ullfifi'..!.
·
:! \'11_. 1·:,s·J'.~
ages as the jury may assess, and final judgment thereupon shall be
HI \\ . \ II. ~•.
l
I
f
l
l
.
!.? "> v,11. ll:!. enterer um en orcer ,y execution,
as .m otth er cuses ; ant.l a pereinp-l \\ . \ II • .t;:O.
I
h
11
l
l
l
. h
I I
. f tie
l
:!4 w. \"u 311:!. tory nut u« 11111111i s a
Jt~ aware ec wit out < e av as 1
return to
:!X w, \"II. If~. t I.
•t l
{
}
1
·
I
l
.
f
Ji
•
~
:io w. v«. ri8.
ue wri uu Jcen a< JU< gee insu cient.
4io.
~\81~·n.
5. If judgment be rendered for the defendant he shall recover his
ii
costs.
34 w. \'11. I. :!8:J.
~1.Gmtt.

:!II"..!.

1 \\:.t~}~ii.igf: picas

,t· ,\~-~-

()11n icurro nto.

!ti.

1,1.

G. .\ writ of 'l'!" wa rra ut o may he awarded nnd prosecuted in the
name of the ~tate of West Virginia, at the instance of the attorney
general, or prosecuting attorney of any county in any of the fol
lowing cases, viz:
Pir.~t. Against a corporation for a misuse or non-use of its eorporate privileges and franchises, or for the exercise of a privilege or
franchise not conferred upon it by law, or where. a certificate of incorporation bas been obtained hy it for a fraudulent purpose. or for
a purpose not authorized hy law.
S('(·,md. Against a person for the misuse or non-use of a prtnlcge and franchise conferred upon him by or in pursuance of law.
Tliird, Against any pe.. rson or persons acting as a corporation.
without authority of law, and
P,110-tl,. Against any person who shall intrude into or usurp any
public office. But no such writ shall he awurded or prosecuted
against any person now in office, for any cause which would have
heen available in support of :1 proceeding to contest the election of
such person to such office.
~lpJ,li,·11/fou for 1crit-11·!1t·11 «ud lun» nuul«.
7. Whenever the attorney-general or prosecuting attorney of any
county is satisfied that a cause exists therefor he may, at his own instance, or at the relation of any person interested, apply hy petition
to the circuit court of the county wherein the scat of government is.
or of the county wherein the cause for the issuing of such writ
arose, to hnvo such writ issued. and shall state therein the reason
therefor. Whenever such writ is issued at the relation of uny person.
the petition shall he to the circuit court of the county wherein the
scat of government is, or of the county wherein the cause or any
part thereof, for the issuing of .such writ arose, as the relaters may
elect.
lVl,n1 Hurl lunr ur]! lo i.ii.•uu·-.~,·,·urityf,,r cost», rte,
8. If, in the opinion of the court, the reasons so stated in the 1)Ctition are sutllcieut in law, it shall award the said writ amt the same
shall he si~ncd hy the judg(' of such court and attested by the dt>rk
thereof.
Hut if such writ be awarded at the relation of an~· person.

Digitized by

Google

Cn. 109.J

MANnAMUs

759

ANn Quo WARRANTO.

it shall not he issued until the rolator shall give hond with good security, to be approved hy the court, in such penalty as the court shall
prescribe, with condition that the relator will pay all such costs and
expenses as may be incurred by the State in the prosecution of such
writ, in case the same shall not be recovered from and paid by the
defendant therein.
[nformut in» in flu: n11/11r,,

,~f

a writ

'!f

'Jltfl

tr arru nto,

H. In any case in which u writ of <J"" warr111111J would lie, tho at- td.
torney-general or prosecuting attorney of any county, at his own instance, or at the relation of any person interested, or an)· person interested may, in the nnme of the State of West Vlrglnln, apply to
any such conrt as is mentioned in the seventh section of this chapter,
for leave to file an information in the nature of a writ of '1'"' warr,111111
for any of the causes and against any of . the corporations, officer, or
persons mentioned in the sixth section of this chapter, and be shal 1,
at the time of his application, present to the court the information
he proposes to file. If, in the opinion of such court, the matters
stated in such information are sufficient in law to authorize the same
to he filed, an order shall he made filing the same and awarding n
summons against the defendant named therein to answer such information. Hut if the leave to file such information he asked on the relation of any person, or by any person at his own instance, the summons thereon shall not he issued by the clerk until such relater 01·
person shall give the bond and security required by the next preceding section. A copy of every such information, if not made out
and filed therewith, shall be made out by the clerk, and such copy
shall he delivered to the otflcer to whom the summons is del ivered to
he served, and shall be served on the defendant or one of the defendants named in the summons.
Sn·,·i,·1· ,,j· u-r]! 11r 1H1111m1111.'i; liou: 1111</ 011 w/111111 11111d,·.
Io. Every such writ or summons shall he served as provided in ht.
chapter one hundred and twenty-one of this code, and if it be against
a corporation it shall be served on some of the persons mentioned in
sections seven and eight of chapter one hundred and tweuty-four of
this code; and if service thereof can not otherwise he made upon any
defendant named in such writ or summons, it may be made hy publication as prescribed in said last. named chapter.
l'r11c~,.rfi11gx

011 ir rit or i11Ji1rmotio11

after «errice

tl1t·rcof.

11. lf the defendant named in such writ or Information, fail to
.
appear a f ter t l re service
thereo f as n f oresau. l : tho court may hear ltl.
proof of the allegations of the petition or information. and if such
ullegntions he sustained. the court shall tiive judgment accordingly.
But if the service he made by publicat ion, the defendant against
whom such judgment is rendered, upon giving bond and security as
provided in section eight of this chapter, may ham the judgment
against him set aside. and make such (lpfl•nce us he or it may have
thereto.
If the defendant appear before the end of the term next

Digitized by

Google

PttoHIRITtON AND CERTIOttAJlI.

Ill.

Id.

[(~H.

i 10.

after the service of summons, or thereafter before judgment is rendered against him, he may demur or plead not guilty, or both, to
such writ, or demur or answer in writing, or both, to such information, and every allegation contained in such information which is not
denied by such answer shall be taken as true. and no proof thereof
shall be required.
Tr/al, rr nl ict um! Judgm,·ul.
· l :!. If upon the trial of such writ or information the defendant be
found guilty, or not guilty, of any of the charges therein, the verdict
shall he "guilty,·· or "not guilty;" as the case muy he; but if he he
found guilty as to a part of such charges only, the verdict shall be
guilty as to such charges, and shall particularly specify the same,
and us to the residue of such charges the verdict shall be · -not
guilty.··
Against a defendant so found guilty, the court shall give
such judgment as is appropriate and authorized by law, and for the
costs incurred in the prosecution of such writ or information, including an attoruey's fee of not. less than ten nor more than fifty dollars,
· to he fixed hy the court.
A.ppointmPIII of recrirer ,~( property of corporul ion-s-trhrn,
1 a. If by the judgment of the court rendered as aforesaid, a corporation. or pretended corporation, be dissolved, the court may appoint n receiver of the property of such corporation or pretended
corporation, as provided in section twenty-eight of chapter one hundred and thirty-three of this code, and may make all such other
orders in relation thereto as may be necessary for the preservation
and safe-keeping of such property.
CHAPTtm ex.

For rornll'r In w
lo prohihl·
tlou. ,. .. ,. ('oJ ..
\'11.l~.ch. 1r,.:,.
For oth,•r r,·r-

111<

o•·

TH•: WHITS 01'' PHOHIBI'l'IO~

•·r••tu'•·~.:o-P .. st•t•1io11,-.
C'.oll!<l.l~l.art.
vi, SM.
1 • .. 11 ... 1. I~:!. art.
vi i]. f I:!.
'~'.''"' 11~t!. ,·.11.
la.t

A~ll

('EHTJOH.\IU.

:,;i,;I'.

St:c-.
I. or 11 ... writ or prohibit ion.

I~
\

I.or

t lu- writ

or e,•rtior:iri.

ti. ~

1 ' The writ of prohibition shall lie as u mutter of rizht
in nil eases
e- '
of usurpation and abuse> of power, when the inferior court bus not
.-\1. \11.II. ((:a,..
1:~· jurisdiction of the subject matter in controversy. or having such juH,... -L.
,, H1111<1. tti.1.
risdiction, PXCPeds its legitimate powers.
1t shall not bP necessarv
Ii.
•
,
"
· f
h •t · ·
\ •
.I:!1,:, (,mll.
t_irn!t. r-,~;
to file a suggestion
on any app l'tcatron
ror a writ o pro 1 ution. -ut
11 4-~·
•,, ''w.• 'v«. • :xii.
1.
1
·
l
f
tti
I
.
1
d
.
t
the same may ue npp le< or on a t uvit on y : an m case t re party
119·
rM w
w.-. ,·:··
v». lit.
·
l )C' < 1·1 rectr« l to < l t'C'. I nre .in pro hil
. issue
.
d . t h.e
;11
app l ymg
1 >Iiti1011, I )<' f ore writ
g{ ~L ~-::: !:!: declaration shall ht> expressed to ht> on hcbalf of such party only.
11111·
Yu.
unrl not on the behalf of the party and of the State, and shall con;!,~~: ~:::: ~1\!: tain and set forth in u concise uiunuer, so much only of the proceed;! ~~-: v:.·. 'frJ.-. ing ns muy be necessury to show the ground of the applicatlon.
1~
't~· without nJlP~ing: the delivery of a writ 01' any contempt. and shal]
\~ '\,._,·,~=,{-'\li.7. conclude hy praying that n writ of prohibition may issue : to which
:t..'6. 36'.!.
declaration the defendant muy demur. or plead such matters, by "·ay

J~t"·

r ~:: :

Digitized by

Google

Cn. 110.J

PROIIIRITION

76i

AND CERTIORARI.

of traverse, or otherwise, as may he proper to show that the writ
ought not to issue, and conclude by praying that such writ may not
issue; and judgment shall he given that the writ of prohibition do or
do not issue, as justice may require; and the party in whose favor
such judgment is given, whether on verdict or otherwise, shall recover his costs; and in case a verdict shall he given for the plaintiff,
the jury may assess damages, for which judgment shall also be given,
hut such assessment shall not be necessary to entitle the plaintiff to
costs.
.A rule to show cause may he issued in vacation by a judge of
a circuit court, or of the supreme court of appeals.
Of ti,,, ic rit f~f cert ior« ri.
2. In every case, matter or proceeding, in which a crrt ioru ri might l '011,.1. 18~. art.
be issued, as the law heretofore has been, and in every case, matter~~!\·}:~.!. eh.
.
l!l:t l'.h. :!1;
or procee dimg hef ore a county court, counci'I o f a city,
town or vi'11 age,!.~·
justice or other inferior tri bunal, the record or proceecling may after 4_.~~ ·' 11• .. --.MH,
a judgment or final order therein, or after any judgment or order~ \::;:~fl.
therein abridging the freedom of a person, be removed by a writ of~~~~:: \!~~-'1'i1.
cert iorn ri to the circuit court of the county in which said judgment:\ ', v». HD.
was rendered, or order made; except in cases where nut hority is or il ~~:: ~::: ~;~·
may he given by law, to the circuit court or 't.tw judge thereof in \'a-;
cation, to review such judgment or order on motion, or on appeal, i! f \':;_ttiiHd.
writ of error or supersedeas, or in some manner other than upon :tr..
.
:ll \\'. \ II. 3t>-J.
certiora ri ; hut no cert ioru.r] shall l.,(' issued in civil cases before [us- -tiO. 11:~t
:12 \\. \'11. 6:i7.
tices, where the amount in controversy, exclusive of interest and:~ w. \'n.87.~'>.
costs, does not exceed fifteen dollars.
B. In every case. matteror proceeding before a county court, coun- i~t· Ir®?. ch.
cil, justice or inferior trihunnl, in which a writ of certiorari would 1~11.,·h. :~.
tnW.\'11.~.
lie according to the provisions of the preceding section, the majority 111 w. \11.1'4.
, ,
.
h
:.,1 \\ . \ u. !!SI.
of tile comrmssioners composing a court, or t e justice or the officer ·!6 w. \'11. :!:IO.
!Al
·1·
h
'I
h
·
f
·
il
l
}
ll:r.!w.,·n.
>4.
or orncers presu mg over sue counci or ot er 111 error tri mnn , s ia :t~ w. v«.,J."ur2.
upon request of either party in :l civil case, matter or proceeding,
or the defendant in a criminal case, matter or proceeding, certify the
evidence if any which may huve been beard, and sign hills of exceptions, setting forth any rulings or orders which may not otherwise
appear of record.
Such certificate of evidence and hills of exceptions shall he part of the record and us such bP removed and returned
to the circuit court. The clerk upon receiving such record shall tile
the same and docket the case, in the same manner that other cases
are docketed.
Upon the hearing, such circuit. court shall, in addition
to determining such questions as might have been determined upon a
cerrioru ri; as the law heretofore was, review such judgment. order or
proceeding, of the county court, council, justice or other inferior
tribunal upon the merits, deterinlne all questions arising on the law
and evidence. and render such judgment or make such order upon
the whole mutter, as law and just.ice may require, But all such eases
removed as uforesnid from before a justice to the circuit court,
wherein the amount in controversy is wore than fifteen dollars, and

~r:

~r·. ,\~: ~~.

Digitized by

Google

762

HABEAS

[CH. 111.

CokPUS.

in which the judgment of the justice is .set aside, shull he retained in
said court; and disposed of as if originally brought therein.
ch.
4. Such writs may be awarded by the judge of such circuit court
Act s lkfl~.
isa
in vacation, and in case of an order abridging the freedom of a person, may be returned and heard and determined by the judge of such
circuit court. in vacation, if reasonable notice of such hearing shall
have been given the other party, and such court or judge may grant
u writ of l,al1nt.-< ,·11rp1t,'< in aid of such cert iornri.
hi.
fl. A writ of certioru ri shall not operate to suspend the judgment
15 w. \'it.:!:W.
or order, removed thereby, or proceedings on such judgment or order,
except in a criminal case, until the party applying therefor, or some
one for him, shall file in the otllce of the clerk of the circuit court, a
bond payable to the State of West Virginia, with security approved
by such clerk, in a penalty to be prescribed by the court or judge
awarding the writ, conditioned to perform and satisfy such judgment
or order as· may be rendered or made by the circuit court, and to pay
all such damages and costs as mny he awarded to any party by such
court or judge>, and with any further condition which such· court or
judge may prescribe.
Aet s 188']. ch.
n. When such bond as is mentioned in the next preceding section
153.
is flied, the writ of rrrt iora r] shall operate to stay all proceedings
upon the judgment or order removed by the writ, and all further proceedings before the county court, justice or other inferior tribunal in
the case, matter or proceeding in which it was awarded, until the
final determination of the matter hy the circuit court, except as to
any order or sentence ahri<lging the freedom of a person: hut the
court or judge may let such party to bail, ~s in other cases.

CHAPTim CXI.
(.\s n11w111h•1l and r,•-.•n1tr.trd.
OJ,' THI<;

WRIT

OJ,'

~EC'.

For form,·r ln w
011 1111' suhj,•ct
«r t lrls eimpl•·r.
,.,.,.
< 'rnli• Vu.
l~&J. I'!,. latl.
For ollll'r rc·r,·r,,11,., .... ,.,.,. ,.,.1••
tious.

I. Writ of ha/i,(IH ,·nrp111t: to h,• isl'1 ... d u1H111
wlws•· p1·titin11.
~. How writ t11 h,• dir1·1·1t·1l 1u11I 1111111<' r•··
I ur11111,1...
:3. C'uurt l!r1111ti111nna., r••t1uir•• honcl: whvu,
4. """ writ to h,• ,wrv,·il.
.
.
a. 1'1•11a It.,· Oii p••r,-011 11!,;,olH·~ 1111! writ.
fl. < '1111rt 111 lu-u r t lu- 1•1111s,• and r,·1111,•r
judunu-nt.
7. \\'h"ll n tlldu vit» of wi111,,,.,.,.,. r•·:icl 11,..
l'\'itl1•Jlt'.C'.

St>P A1•ts
IIAHEAS

IHn-a. ch.

00.)

CORJ>l"8.

. SF.I'.

1'"11cts µr11v,·d tu ti .. 11111,I,• p11rt of tlw
prrn•,••·•linl!s: when.
I U. l'ow,•r of Jud~•· in ~·ar11tio11.
10. .I mll,{IIIP!lt ,•111lf'lu,-n·,,: ,•x,·,·1•1 wlu-u.
/ I I. ~upr1•11w .•·011rt may h,· ,·al ,•d to!l"llwr
_h., pr~·,-1<11•111 or 1!<•\·1·r1111r; wlu-u.
I~. \\ ln-n JU•.hWll'lll 1111~ to l,i• su~,lt-'IIClt.J.
,\1•.: pr1so11Pr 11tl1111•tnl to h111. \\ lwn.
I t:l.
Writ ,h Jwmi11f npltgit1m/o ubolb-Iu-d.
14. Writ of /111/J~"" rorpn« ad fnd(flc11111/1111,.
/ I(

c011,.1• llr.:!. urt,
1. The writ of l1al11·11x ,:or1m,I( ml .rnl~ji,·i,·11d11111 shall he granted
\1i.ii's\~··.!-:t ch. forthwith hy the supreme court of apponls.
or any circuit court. or
7:i<a. r h. K
any judge of either court, in vacation. to any person who shall, hy
Z
himself. or hy some one in his behalf', apply for tho same hy petition,
{=~· show in~ by affidavit or other evidence, probable C'RUSe to believe that
fu't·,.\\/';:: ho is detained without lawful authority.
~'{}\\'.\'a. iT>I.
2. The writ, shall he directed to the person in whose custody the
.,,.,,. tH'i:?·:J. ,·h. petit loner is detained, and made returnuhlo as soon as may he. before
~\·. v«. ooo. the court or judge ordering the same, or any other of the said courts
or judges.

t~:.~:'. ~:·.

rw~,~~: .

Digitized by

Google

Ca. 111.J

flABEAS

763

CORPUS.

3. The court or judge granting the writ may previously require &t" 1sr.?-s, ch.
bond with security in n reasonable penalty, payable to the person to
whom the writ is directed, with condition that the petitioner will not
escape by the way, and for the payment of such costs and charges as
may be awarded against him. It shall be filed with the other proceedings on the writ and may be sued on for the benefit of any per.
son injured hy the breach of its condition.
4. The writ shall be served on the person to whom it is directed, Itl.
or in his absence from the place where the petitioner is confined; on
the person having the immediate custody of him.
5. If any person on whom such writ is served, shall, in disobe- tti.
dience to such writ, fail to bring the body of the petitioner, with a.
return of the cause of his detention, before a court or judge before
whom the writ is returnable, for three days after such service, or
when he has to bring the prisoner more than twenty miles, for so
many more days as is equal to one day for every twenty miles of such
further distance, he shall forfeit to the petitioner three hundred
dollars.
G. The court or judge before whom the petitioner is brought, after ld.
hearing the matter both upon the return and any other evidence,
9.
shall either discharge or remand him, or admit him to bail, as may 26 w. \'u. 36·
he proper, and adjudge the costs of the proceedings, including the
charge for transporting the prisoner, to be paid as shall seem to be
right.
7. At the direction of the court or judge, the affidavits of witnesses .\!'ts l87'.!--.'J. ch.
taken by either party on reasonable notice to the other, may be read 60·
as evidence.
8. All the material facts proved shall, when it is required by either Id.
party, he made a part of the proceedings, which, when they are had Jti~. ch. s.
in vacation, shall be signed by the judge and certified to the clerk
of the circuit court of the county in which the judgment is rendered,
and he entered by him among the records of that court ..
H. The judge issuing any such writ in vacation, or the judge be- Arts 1~72.3. ch.
fore whom it is tried, shall have the same power to enforce obedience f\r. \'n. 600.
to the writ, to compel the attendance of witnesses or to punish contempt of his authority as a court has; and his judgment on the trial
of the writ when entered of record as aforesaid, shall be considered
and be enforced as if it were n judgment of the court among whose
records it is entered.
10. Any such judgment entered of record shall he conclusive, un- Arb 1~-a. ch,
less the same be reversed, except that the petitioner shall not he pre-:·w. \'11. 32.
eluded from bringing the same matter in question in an action for
false imprisonment.
Const. 186.1. nrt.
11. If during the recess of the supreme court of appeals, the go?- ~·.i,;1~"t llr.'.?,urt.
ernor or the president of the said court should think the immediutc \i/}},';.;.i.s. ch.
revision of any such judgment to he proper, he may summon the)~\11111r. :..'9'..!.
court tor that purpose to meet on any day to he fixed hy him.
iGrntt. ~1.
12. When the prisoner is remanded
the execution of the judg- ~~ts 18:..!-3, ch.

~;'k'~'~/~

Digitized by

Google

764

[CH. 112.

C11tcU1T CouRTS.

ment shall not he suspended hy the writ of error, or suspended for
the purpose of applying for one. But where he is ordered to be
discharged and the execution of the judgment suspended for the purpose of applying for a writ of error, the court or judge making such
suspending order may in their discretion, admit the prisoner to hail
until the expiration of the time allowed for applying for the writ of
error, or in case the writ of. error be allowed, until the decision of the
supreme court of appeals thereon is duly certified.
13. The writ de lunniue rlpfrgimulo is abolished.

t<l.

Writ.'! of lwl,ro.<: ,·,1rp11H od tcstifica nd nn«.
~~ts lH83. ch. H.

4. ,vrits Of /1,,/1('(1S <'01"JW,'I w/ frst,:fic,111du111
may he granted by
any circuit court, or any judge thereof', in vacution, in the same
manner and under the same conditions anti provisions as are prescribed by this chapter as to granting the writ of Ji,,!,,,,,,,; cfJl'J'"" ml
.,;11l!ji,·i,·11d11m, as for as the same are applicable.
]

CHAPTJrn CXII.
(.\,. 11111 .. ud,•d u nd r,·-•·111wt ... d.

s,,, ..

\<'I" 1881. ,·h. 3.J

For tonuer law
OJ,' 'J'IIF: Cl RClTf C<WllTS.
,_11_1 this i,a1hi1·ct
"1it'P
t'otl•• \•u.
1!!60.ch. tnH. l•'or SEr.
St;I".
rurthl·r rt· r,, r- I. or th•· 1•ir,·11i1,. and r .. ·:1rr:u1~··1111·11t
11. R,·..,id .. 111·,· of j11di:1•,- .
..,11111,s, ,.,.,. s,·~th1•r1•of.
I to.
11r<1,•rs 1111ulo• iu \":H:11tio11, ,\,·.
I ions,
2. .I urisd i,•tion or •·.1r,•11it 1•1111r1... .
.
' 11 I i-:t,,,.1 ion of juu .. ,• h\· 11 ... , 11 bt•r,:t !{<'!fllh1r t,:r111,.;: .111d~,· of 1111,• ,·1r<•u11111ny , to :- bn r whr-n
·
h .. 111 c1111r1 in n not lu-r.
'a. I
·
·
-1. .\1lj1111r1ll'<l t .. rm».
1-1 .• \pp1•11l,- from t lu- couutv court.
Acts 1868. I;>· 414. r, l
(l'Xlrll se,.;s1nn. l to ~SJwcial tr-rm» .
.\"'" 1~1. ch. :t k. I

nr

tht-

I

I

Const, tM.'J. art.
Of tlu· circuits and th« rr-urrn normcu! thrrro]:
vi.§ 6.
A.r,. xr,
1.
judicial circuits, as prescribed by section thirteen of artk-le
< 011,.;t 1147-.nrt .•
}
l
.
.
f l ,
,
1 l
11
nil.§ 1:!.
it of t ie constitutlon o t us xtate as nmem P< , shu he and re.\l'ls l~i:!-:l. eh.
•
il
l
il
l
I
h
l
•
l
. pursu15. ¥ 3. rn.
mum as so prcscn w< unti re-arranger
t e egrs nture m
l&ll, ei .. a
·
f our t een o f sau. 1 artic
. I C' e1g
. l it.
aw.
\'11. :~.
ance o f Rectum
-I W. \'11. lifi. 300.
5 W. \"11. :!'ill.
.l n risd ict ion '!f cir<:uil ,·11111·/x.
IJW.\'ll.:llli.4-11.

s ~;

The

etg

,y

~~.;-. v«. 61:!.
2. The circuit court shall hnve the supervision and control of nll
l~t· v». ti-lM. proceedings hefore just.ices and other inferior tribunals, hy 111,111tltt11111".
v». 6i:t prohibition and crrt ioro r],
They shall, except in cases confined <'X·
17 \\.\'i~. 1. ~-ttl. elusively hy the constitution to some other t ribunnl, have originul
l,l " . \ II .• i;.,;;.
. . 1 tenon
· .
:JOtl.
aml genera I jurisc
o f a I I matters nrt I aw, w liere t lw amount .m
14 w, v». lai.
I
·
f
· t erost, exceor l s fif ty <l oII urs ; o f a11 cases
:w..
controversy, exc usive o m
4~t
tit· v». of /,,,1,,,,,." ,·,11·p11 ..,, 11w11dt111111.", 'I"" tru r ru nl», and prohibition: and of
~i ~~--)/4
all cases in equity, and of all crimes unrl misdemeunors.
They shall
v». ~!:i. have appellate jurisdiction in all cases, civil and criminal, where an
~1 ~~:: \:~;.1 appeal. writ of error or supersedens may he allowed to tho judgment
~tr ottwr c.a,... ,. or proceedings of nny in forior tribunal. T'hoy shnll also have such
11011· *
other [urisdict iou, whether supervisory, original. appellate or c·om·urrent, as is or may he prC'8erihP<l hy lnw.

~.t·

:r·
i; .. ,.

:~?~1.

~t~.

''"''

•.!:l W. \'1t :!ti: :!4 W. \'u. i'!. :!:W, ::.'79, 3.'",0. 3Hi. 416: :!a W. \'n. 1144: ~ W. \'u. 38, '81. 741.
H:i9: '!i W. \'tt. ltij, 211. i'..~; ~ \\'. \"11. ~. f....:l.i44: :!U \\. \'11, :))I :!!Cl: J:!S. t-:. IC. le.Mi. llHI_

Digitized by

Google

•

CH. 112.]

765

CrncUIT CouRTS.

R,:.qular frrms-jud_q,, of om· ci,·,·uit mo,l/ !told court in another,
B. There shall be at least three terms of the circuit court every<'.1'.n"t. 1sr.?.11rt.
vur. i 11.
year in each county, commencing at such times as may be prescribed Acti< IHi'.!-3. ch.
by law. A judge of one circuit may, by arrangement with the judge l~t ~:h~~i
of any other circuit, or when the office of judge in any other circuit
is vacant, bold the courts in any such circuit.
Act» 187'..?-3, <'11
Adjourned trrms.
la. i 6.
188f, eh, 3.
4. lf any term of a circuit court is about to end without dispatch- 14 w. v». 1!'>1.
ing all its business, the judge thereof may, by an order entered of
record, adjourn the holding of such court to any future day on which
he is not required hy law to hold a court in some other county; and
all causes on the docket of said court, and not otherwise disposed of,
shall stand continued to such adjourned day. The court may, in i~s
discretion, require the jury summoned to attend such term, to attend
as such on the adjourned day, or may require a new jury to be drawn
and' summoned in the manner required hy law; and all witnesses
summoned to attend in causes so continued to such adjourned term,
are required to attend said term without being again summoned .
All judgments, orders and decrees, rendered and made by such court
before or during the day on which said court adjourns to such future
duy, as aforesaid, shall have the same force and effect in all respects
as if said court had finally adjourned on that day.
~·
· l
Acts IM'i'.!-3. ch
.-...J><'f't". terms,
15. § 1.
.

11181. ch. 3.

5. If any term of such court has ended without dispatching all its tHS!t, ch . .ffl .
lir11 tt. ti.~.
business, or 1. f there I re a f at· 1 ure to h o I ci any term, or w l ienever he atow.
Y1t. a;6.
thinks the public interest requires it, the judge of the circuit court
may, hy a warrant directed to the clerk, appoint a special term thereof
and prescribe in such warrant whether a grand or petit jury, or both,
are to he summoned to attend such term.
The clerk shall enter the
warrant in the order hook of the court, and inform the prosecuting
attorney and the sheriff of such appointment, post a copy of the
warrant at the door of the court house, and issue all proper process,
returnable to such speci~1l term; and the sheriff shall execute such
process. and summon a grand or petit jury, or both, as mny be prescribed in the warrant.
Any such special term may he held in any
county, although at the time the same is held, a term of the circuit
court is heing held, or required to he held, in u.ny other county of
the same judicial circuit, and it may be held hy the judge of another
circuit, or by a special judge elected by the attorneys practicing in
such court in the manner prescribed hy law.
·1'.."'~}Ri'.!-:t ch .
... ~ "·
U. Whenever any judge of a circuit court shall have appointed a 1881, ch. :t
special term of uny circuit court in the manner directed by the preceding section, and shall afterwards ascertain that he can not hold
the said special term on the day appointed for it, he may, by warrant under his hand. directed to the clerk of the court, adjourn it to
such other day as he muy deem proper.
Such warrant shall be trunsmitted by the judge to the clerk, who shall immediately enter the

Digitized by

Google

[CH. 112.

CIRCUIT COURTS.

said warrant in the order book of the court, and as to the said special
term thereafter to he held under the said continuance, proceed in all
other respects in the manner directed by the section aforesaid.
ch.
7. Whenever the situation of a prisoner confined in jail for trial
1
1~~.?·3·
1148
3·
• "11·
in a circuit court makes it proper that his case should be disposed of
before the next regular term thereof, the judge of such court may
appoint a special term to be holden for the trial of the case, in the
same manner as if the same had stood for trial at the next preceding
term, and the court had adjourned without disposing thereof.
Acts tH'i'.?·3. ch.
8. Any cause, civil or criminul.and any motion or proceeding ready
:~t_ !t. 3. for trial or hearing, may he tried, heard and determined at any such
676·
:i w. v».
special term, the 'same as if it were a regular term of such court.
~~very such special term may be held by the judge of the circuit,
or, if he be dead or absent, hy any other circuit judge who may he
present; and it may be held part of its session by one judge and part
by another; and such special terms may be adjourned from time to
time <luring the intervals between the regular terms as the judge may
deem necessary for the dispatch of the business of the court.
~

1~,"

Rt.'.sidenre nf Judge11.

~m'.;\!F· art.
Act» IMXl.ch.

9. Each circuit judge, during his continuance in office, shall reside
:tin the circuit for which he was elected.

Ordrr« made i11 racurion, ctr,
10. All orders and decrees made by a judge out of court in a cause
pending in court, shall be certified by him to the clerk of the court
in which the same is pending, and he entered by such clerk in the
proper order book.
Elrctio». of judg,: b.lJ member» of t/11• lnt r; 1dw11.
~'.;i:'.1·,~~. nrt, 11. When for any cause the judge of a circuit court shall fail to
i~~t IH'i'.!-3. ch. attend and hold the same, either at the commencement of the term,
IAAI. r-h. :t
whether regular, adjourned or special, or at any time before its ml14 W. v». Kai.
:!I W. v». 'i'M:!. [ournmcnt ; or if he he in attendance and can not properly preside at
2'.! w. ,·11. tr.'!oC.
the trial of any cause therein, tho attorneys present und practicing
in said court may elect a [udgc hy ballot to hold said court during
the absence of the judge, or for the trial of the cause in which the
judge of said court mm not preside.
The 'clerk of the court shall
hold said election, declare the result thereof, and enter the same or
record.
l'm1•id,·d. lunrcrer, That the parties or their attorneys, in
any case in which the judge of tile court can not properly preside al
the trial thereof, may agree upon a judge to try or bear and determine the smuo, which agreement shall he entered of record in the
proper order hook of the court, and in such case no election of u
judge to try or bear and determine tho case shall he held. Xo person who is counsel or uttornoy in the case to which the disability of
tho [udgo relntes, .shall vote in the election of n judgo to try the same:
nor shall any person who has not boon admitted to practice as an
attorney in some court in this ~lute lw oloetod us such judge.
The
judge so elected or agreed upon shall, before proceeding to uct, take
A~t11 187'.!·3,tch.
Jr,.~ 13.
l~l.d1.3.
0 w. Va. 441.
:!4 w. \'11. i'Z.
29 w. \"11. 4H'i.

Digitized by

Google

CH. 112.]

767

CIRCUIT COURTS.

an oath that he will faithfully and impartially perform the duties of
a judge of such court so long as he shall continue to act as such;
and if he be elected or agreed upon to try or hear and determine a
particular case as herein before provided for, he shall take the further
oath that he is not interested as counsel or attorney, or otherwise, in
the cause to be tried or heard and determined by him.
12. Every judge so elected or agreed upon, shall have and pos-xe«
sess the same powers and perform the same dutiest in all respects as
the regularly elected judge of such court, during the time he shall
act in pursuance of such election or agreement.
If there be any
cause pending in such court, in the trial or hearing of which the
judge elected as aforesaid, can not properly preside, another judge
for the trial or hearing thereof may be elected or agreed upon as
aforesaid.
13. The judge so elected or appointed shall receive for his services, 1<1.
while sitting as such judge, ten dollars per day, to he certified by the
court and paid out of the state treasury. This and the two next
precceding sections shall apply as well to criminal as to civil causes.

tR8t.

eh.a.

Appeals from the cou11ty court.
14. In anv case in which an appeal lies under section forty-seven Acts
of chapter thirty-nine of this code, ns amended, on behalf of a party:~.
to a controversy in a county court, such party may present to the
circuit court of the county in which the judgment, order or proceeding complained of was rendered, made or had, or in the vacation of
such court, to any judge of a circuit court, the petition of such party
for an appeal. Such petition must he presented within one year
after such judgment, order or proceeding was rendered, had or made.
With such petition there shall be a transcript of the record and proceedings in the county court, and the petition shall assign errors.
lf the appeal be allowed, the order of allowance shall specify what
bond, if any, is required, before such appeal shall take effect, and
the papers shall be filed with the clerk -of the circuit court, first mentioned in this section. A cop_y of the order of allowance shall be
served upon the opposite party, and upon proper return of such service
and the execution of the required bonds the appeal shall be docketed
and proceeded with in the circuit court. If the petition be refused
the refusal shall be endorsed on the petition which may then be
presented to a judge of the court of appeals; if the matter be one in
which an appeal would be to that court from a judgment of the circuit court affirming the action of the county court, such judge may
in such case allow or refuse the appeal, and in case of allowance by
him, the like proceedings shall be had as if the allowance wns by a
circuit judge. After the decision of the appeal by the circuit court,
the cause or matter shall be remanded to the county court, or he retained in the circuit court and there proceeded with as the circuit
court may determine and order.

Digitized by

t87'..!-3, ch.

~t 15:!.

Google

768

. [CH. 113

8UPRE:\IE COURT OF APPEALS.

CHAPTER
SUPRE:\IE COURT
For

form .- r
law"
on t~"
,-11hjt>1'.t or ting
c h 11 pt~ r, ,. ....
< 'odP. \ 11. 1!!60.
ch, 160: <
l~ .,n~t. ,l.li. t ,
~- .\c.!s 1863.di.
li.
I< or other
J'1•fpr,•n«·Ps. i<l't'

SEe.
·
I. Court to co11si1<1 of four judg .. ,.: •1uoru111.
2. Presids-nt : who to net In his nhsP111.'.P.
3. S,•ssionsor,·ourt.wh,•rPht>ld.
4
I
i .Jurisdli•tion.
I'). Court to.uppoint 11 <;l••rk. crh-r, 1111<11111:~·1
".''"". Pr: r.l· ·.·rk to irH·•· hond: ,·1w111wv 111
ofll,••· of ,·lt·rk. how tlll..rl.
·
ff. D11tiP1< of clerk.
i. Uutit•,- of ,·ri,·r.
'
I

:o"."!· _.; ..

,;1•t:llo11s.

oxur.
OF APPEALS.

:0-Ec.
K Uutit•,. of 1111·s,.1•111,wr.
Q. Stnh• dlvidvd in lhr .. ,• j11did11l gr1111d division,;: <'11cl1 1•asP tol11• lw1trd inil,..
own division. 1•xrn•pt wlu-n :
how
dockvt und pro1•1·Pdi11gs r1•g11)111t•tl.
IO I
.
.
to • Sp,~c111 I.· s,•s,;1011s.• \c.
13. \
14. Wh11 t ,•11 us••s court ma v deerd«,
•

1. The supreme court of appeals shall consist of four judges;
elected and qualified according to the constitution and laws; any
41•1
.,
three of whom shall he a quorum.
I.CI. 1
lu. § J.
t~.!. ch. 156.
2. They shall designate one of their body to be the president of
Acts l!fi'.!-3. di. said court.
In the absence of the president any- other J Hd1Ic
desigrn. p.
....
181'.!'.!. ch. 156.
nated by the judges present, shull act as president.
r-011,.1. IRr.!.11rt.
3. Three sessions of the supreme court of appeals shall he held
~i~!J~1. ch. l'.4. every year; one in Charleston, in the county of Kanawha, commcncl:~1:
ing on the second Wednesday in .Ianuary ; one in Wheeling, in the
i1:L~"i'.':
county of Ohio, commencing on the first Wednesday in .Iune, and
one in Charlestown, in the county of ,Jefferson, commencing on the
first Wednesday in September; and continue until the business is
dispa tched.
.!11 ri:uTi,·ti,,11.
4. The original jurisdiction of the supreme court of appeals, shall
!.;'U'.~·:1.18i'.!.nrt. extend to cases of l11tlwa.., cfJrp11x, mumlamus. and prohibition. The
j~'i'~/~;-.!..;t ch. appellate jurisdiction shall extend to civil cases when the matter in
l~~·r~:·i. !;.r'!\. controversy, exclusive of costs, is. of greater value or amount than
11·. ~one hundred dollars; in controversies concerning the title or boundaries of land, the probate of wills, tho appointment or qualification
fo'\?\~~~·t:: of a personal represntative, guardian, committee or curator ; or con~cerning a mill.· road, way,
ferrv., or landing., ; or the right
of a cor11 W. V11.:>6:!.
"
,.
1:! w. \'11. :!13. poration or county. to levv tolls or taxes; and also in cases of 'l'"!
J:t \\', \'II. :?:l),
.
~
•
•
• • ,
a.~. 366.
ico rrontn, hnl,rt1.~ ,.",.P"·~, 111t111d,111111.~. rertiornrt and prohibition, and
101·
14
•
•
I vmg
· f reed om or tie
l constrtuttonu
. .
1·ity o f a l aw. It s Im I I
rs w
w. · v».
v». ~- in
cases mvo
3-41-1. 3,.....s. 5IIO.
h ave appe 11 ate Jlll'ISl
. . Iiiction
.
.in crmnna
. . ) cases, w h ere t l iere lms lK..'<'11
16 w. v», 864.
i;w.,·11.ni'R.
·.i
. a circuit
.
. court, nm I w I iere a
881.
convicictiion f or fle ony or rmsnemeanor
m
:~~/~t·· :!91. conviction has been had in any inferior court and been atflrmed in a
=;: \7!/1~iJ. circuit court, and in cases relating to the public revenue, the right of
~;;~ 011 ... r ,.11,...s appeal shall belong to the ~tate, as well as the defendant, nud such
1101"·*
"1'1' root
other appellate jurisdiction, in both civil and criminal cases, as may
he prescribed by law.
[ 4a. That the supreme court of appeals muy review and re-hear any
Act,.1"419.d1.J6.
l
·.id l rv smr
id court at t J ie next succeed"mg term so f ar as tu
• 1 w. v«. n:.,!.
cases ueciue
l5W.\'1&.:t.!:i.
11
th
~.
. 1 gment
a ow e correction o f· any c leri
errcu I error .m any t l ecree or JU<
pronounced by said court, or where the court on its own motion may
, •011,.,. 1~:!.art.
;1~~}1~:!-a. ch.

0

:t ;\:

ria,

~::l,~J_rt
~ \\:_t::~·~r::

'~~=.

...!3 W. v». i09: :!4 W. \'1~. :!:34. 401. 411\. l',M. M:!: ~' W. \ 11. t:t:J; :.'6 W. \"11. :?i4. !,..~:
Y11. 16i. i-lO; :J8 W. v«. :!~ :JIS.I, 3:.!8. l'>3:t 815: 31 W. \'a. OOII.
0

Digitized by

Google

-r: \\

Cn. 113.]

SurRE)IE

Couar

769

OF ArrEALs.

desire to re-hear and correct such decree or judgment.
But nu nrgnment shall he heard on such motion to re-hear unless requested by
.\t•t,; 18i'.!-3, ob.
said court. J
Ht f !l, 6.
5. The supreme court of appeals, or judges thereof in vucation, 188'-, ch. 156.
may appoint a clerk who shall give bond as required by chapter ten
of this code. They may also appoint a crier and messenger for each
place of holding the said court.
All of which said officers shall be
removable at the pleasure of said court or judges.
Vacancies in
the office of clerk occurring during vacutiou may he filled by appointment in writing, made by the judges of said court or any three of
them.
A•.·ts 11:172-3. oh.
2:3. ~ 1.

fl. It shall

be the duty of the clerk of the supreme court of up- 188'-. ch. l56.
peals to attend in person, or by deputy, all the sessions of the said
court, to obey its orders and directions in term time, and in vacation
to take care of and preserve in an office, kept for the purpose, all the
records and papen; of said court, und to perform such other duties
as may he required of him by the said court, or which shall be prescribed bv law.
Act~_,1fl'i2-3. ch.
~
~3. t -·
1882·
156·
.., . The crier
. o f t h e court o f nppea I s s h a II nttenc 1 t h e sessions
·
f
ch.
o
the court at the place for which he is appointed ; shall keep order in
the court and have its hall kept constantly clean, ventilated and supplied with fire and water when necessury ; obey the orders and directions
of the court, and in nil respects be under its direction and authority,
for which he shall be allowed the sum of four dollars per diem, to he
paid out of the state treasury upon the certificate' of the court.
ch.
8. The messenger of the said supreme court of appeuls shall con- 188:.l. ch. 156.
stantly attend the sessions of the said court at the place for which be
is appointed, and obey its orders and directions, for which he shall be
allowed three dollars per diem, to he paid out of the state treasury
A.-ts ltci'..!-3, ch.
upon the certificate of the court.
16. f 1.
18!t-, ch. 156.
9. The State shall be divided into three judicial grand divisions, 1 w. Va. 91.
as follows: The first grand division shall consist of the counties composing the first, second, third, fourth and fifth judicial circuits, of
Gilmer and Calhoun of the sixth judicial circuit, and Upshur and
Lewis of the eleventh judicial circuit.
The second grand division
shall consist of the counties composing the seventh, eighth, ninth
and tenth judicial circuits, of Clay, -Jackson and Roane of the sixth
judicial circuit, .and of Braxton, Nicholas und Webster the eleventh
judicial circuit.
The third grand division shall consist of the counties composing the twelfth and thirteenth judicial circuits.
Each
case shall be heard and determined in its own grand division, except
by consent of parties, or their counsel, in writing, or unless the parties desiring the hearing shall ha ve given written notice of at least
thirty days before the commencement of the term to the opposite
party, or his counsel, of bis intention to insist on a hearing, when
the same may be heard and determined out of its grand division. The
mode of docketing and proceeding in said causes in the supreme

1'it:.lr.'i-a.

Digitized by

Google

770

GENERAi,

[Cn. 114.

PROVISIONS RELATINO TO COURTS.

court of appeals is regulated by chapter one hundred and thirty-five
of this code.

r:

Special x,:.~sionlf, etc,

10. Special terms of the supreme court of appeals may he held
IBtt!. ch. 156.
for the trial and decision of causes at any of tho places now designated by law for holding the regular terms of said court, or which
may hereafter be designated by law for holding the regular terms,
at such time or place as the said court may designate, by an order
entered on its record at a regular term of said court.
And the said
court by such order made at any regular term in one 'grand judicial
division, may order and direct such special term to be held in the
same or any other judicial grand division: and said court may at
any special term, authorized hy this chapter, decide any cause
which may have been heard at a previous regular or special term.
i.\~.'s l8i7.di.itS.
11. Said court may at any regular or special term, adjourn from
t88:?. ch. 156·
day to day, or from time to time, as the court may order, until its
close.
1817.ch.76.J
12. The judges of said court, or a majority of such judges, may,
188"..!, ch. 156.
by warrant signed by them, directed to the clerk of said court, :\ppoint a special term of said court to he held for the trial and decision
of causes, at any of the places now designated by law for holding
the regular terms of said court, or which may hereafter be designated
by law for holding such regular term of said court.
The clerk of
said court shall enter the said warrant in the order book of the
court.
Ar:ts 1m. ch.
1 a. At any special term of said court, any cause, the record of
7~. ~ 4.
I~. ch. ise.
which has been previously printed may, in the discretion of said
court, he heard and decided by consent of parties or their counsel,
entered of record, or upon at least thirty days notice in writing,
given by the parties desiring the hearing to the opposite party or his
counsel, of his intention to insist on a hearing, when the same may,
in the discretion of the court, be heard and determined within or
without its grand division.
.\els 1Ki7,d1.76,
14. The said court mtly, at any regular or special term, decide any
i 6.
188:!. ch. 1r>6.
cause or proceeding, which may have been previously heard by the
court at any regular or special term thereof.
um,ch.7tS.

t~.'i;

CHAPTER CXIV.
( .\8 nnw111lo•d 1wd re-enacted.
OESERAI.

PROV18IOSS

S.•,• .\els 187'.!·3. ch. 9.)

RF.LA.TISO

:SY.c.

1.

.lurisdk-t iun of court»
WILi.Pf

in couut i-« on

10.

('Ollf!lt'PI.

Power or court" to :uljourn fr11111 1l11y to
For Iorrm-r law
duy, di•.
011 th« 11uhj,•,•t 3. l'ourt of 11p1H·11I" 11111y pr,•l'<'ril>t• form of
of thi,. <•h11p1,·r.
wr lts, <>II'.
,.,.,. Cod,• ,·11. ·t How pr1w1·1·cli111!" of ,·ourt,; 111'1.• dr11w11
)iq}(J.di.161. For
_up. r,·1111. anrt ,.;lf.!111'•1.
r- 5. \\ hut 11111,·,·r 11111,-t an,•ntl ,:ourt.
111 h r- r r,·
''!""'"· see M'C·
f 1')11c1•,.;11f hol1li11f.!1•our1,..: wln-n a nd how
t1uu,-.
pl11c,. nmy be chauin-d. t·t~.
9_
·>

r,,

l: f

11.
1·•

TO TIJF. COURTS.

l'ro\'i,-iou In ,·a,,· •~ourt (1111" to m,.,,t 011
th•• ,Jn~· nppolult•!I. or fn whlch ii i,
udjourm-d ; Pirc111t court must nw.-1
1,.·fnr1· r, ur o',•l111·k on thlr,t '111\".
1'ro,·i,.i1111,.. to pr,•v1•11t t'II"''" h,•inll ,11,..
1•1111ti1111,•d.
111111 a" to ,·u,-t,NI~· uf
r,·1·or1I,-., «tr-.
c ·:111M·:- not d..f•·rmin••<I
l>t•for,· •·11<1 of
u-rm to 1<ta111l couunued.

Digitized by

Google

CH. 114.]

GENERAL

PROVISIOSS REl,ATINO

TO COURT~.

771

.Jurisdiction of cou rts fur couut ie« o« wufrr courses.
1. When any river or water-course lies between any counties in {i~t:%_:!·!th.ll.
this State, the circuit and county courts and justices for the counties
on each side respectively, shall have concurrent jurisdiction over so
much thereof as is opposite to said counties.
And the circuit and
county courts and justices for counties lying on the waters bounding
the State, shall have jurisdiction respectively over such waters opposite said counties, so far as the jurisdiction of t_his State extends.
:!. The supreme court of appeals and circuit and county courts ,.,:t;;IHi:!·J.ch.o.
may at any time adjourn from day to day until the business is dispatched. or until the end of its term.
:3. The supreme court of appeals may, from time to time, prescribe Id.
the forms of writs and other process, and make genernl regulations
for the practice in such court.
4. The proceedings of every court shall be entered in a book and 1,1.
• open court IJ.Y tl ie c l er k o f t h e court.
Th e proceeuings
.1·
l~.ch.48.
reacl m
o f Act;;
1-1 w. v». w,.
each day shall be drawn up at large and read the next day, immedi- :!l w. v«, 7\16.
utely after the court is opened, and after being read, and corrected
where it is necessary, shall be signed by the judge or presiding officer
before the transaction of any other business, except those of the last
day of the term and of the day on which the court may adjourn to a
future day, as prescribed in chapter one hundred and twelve of this
code, which shall be drawn up and read, and corrected where it is
necessary, and signed hy the said judge or officer on the same day.
rl. The court of appeals shall not be attended hy any sheriff, but Act,-t81'J·3.ch.1J.
each circuit court and county court shall be attended by the sheriff
of the county in which it is held, who shall act as the officer thereof.
6. Every circuit court and county court for any county shall be Id.
held at the court house of such county, except where some other place
is prescribed by law or lawfully appointed.
When the court house of
a county is not in a condition to be occupied, such courts shall hold
their sessions at such placess as may be appointed by order of the
county court.
A copy of such order or warrant shall be posted by
the clerk of the county court at the front door of bis office, at the
court house door and at the place so appointed.
7. Whenever, by reason of the destruction of any building in 1tl.
which courts are appointed to be held, or by reason of the place of
session being in possession of, or threatened by a public enemy, or
infected with contagious disease, it shall seem to the governor necessary, he shall, by proclamation, appoint a place at which such courts
shall be held, so long as such reason may continue, and, when the
circumstances require it, may postpone the time for holding the courts.
8. No such place of session for a circuit or a county court shall he ~\t.l~ts !81:t.!.chAS.
without the limits of the county in which it is to he held; and when
such place is appointed because of the destruction of the building in
which the supreme court of nppenls was held, the new place of session shall be within the same town with the old.

Digitized by

Google

772

[Cn. 115.

SEALS.

9. A copy of such proclamation shall he sent to the clerk, and to
each of the judges of any such supreme court of appeals and circuit
courts, and the president of any such county court.
Id.
1 o. Though a court he not held on the first day of a term, it may
:! C~rnlt. Mln.
1 w. \":1. 3:!U.
nevertheless be opened on any subsequent <lay: Proi:itl,,di,ln the case
of a circuit or county court, the sume be done before four o'clock in
the afternoon of the third day. lf, after a court is opened it fail to
sit on any day, it may nevertheless sit on uny subsequent day of the
term: Prooidct}, In the case of a circuit or county court there be not
more than three consecutive days of such failure.
i~('L~1
9·
11. When the place of holding any court, or the day for commencing any term is changed, or when a court fails to sit on any day
appointed for it, or to which it may have adjourned, there shall be
no discontinuance, hut e,·ery notice, recognizance or process, taken
or returnable to the day on which the failure occurred, or to any day
between that duy and the next that the court may sit, or to the day
and place as it was he fore such change: and all matters ready for the
court to act upon if it had heen held on any such day, shall be in the
same condition and have the same effect us if given, taken or returnable, or continued, to the substituted term or place, or to the next
day of the same term that the court may sit, or to the next court in
course, as the case may be.
~'~!i:.'~;:\;t1i~: 12. All causes upon the docket of any court, and all other matters
ft,iJzh :?'..?I. ready for its decision which shall not have been determined before
~-at.,\:
Ho·ut11. the end of a term, whether regular, adjourned or special, shall, with
. out any order of continuance, stand continued until the next term.
Acri,.18i'..?·:t,·h.9.
1 :J. This act-shall he in force and take effect on the thirty-first day
of December, 1 K7:!.
Acts18i:!·3.ch.9.

/J?t•t

For form••r lu w
on t hr- ,-uhj,·c·t
of this clmpt,·r.
N•c• Coch• \'11.
!HOO. eh. 161. Ii
I; ,\ l't" 186.J,eh.
If>; ch. 41.

CIL-\PTER CX\'.
SEALS.
St:L
I. li11,·•·r11or to pro\"ill••

,...,uJ,. for ..t,•rl,;,. of

I

SY..-.
:!. WhP11 elc·rl,; ... 11111y ""''" privur» ,....111,.. ,\-c.

1•011r1 ....

. \,:t ... urr:!-:J, ch.
IK

Id.

1. For every court without one, the governor shall provide a seal
to he deposited with the clerk of the said court.
~- Until provided with an oltlcinl senl, every cJerk of such court
may use his private seal or scroll by way of seal, in cases where the
use of the seal is required by law or usage; and whenever so used,
his attestation of the instrument, record or copy to which it is annexed, shnll set forth the fact that he is not provided with an official
seal, and shall ham the same force and effect as if an official seal
was annexed.
a. This act shall take effect and he in force on the thirty-first day
of December, 187~.

Digitized by

Google

CH. 116.J

773

.JURIES.

CHAPTER CXVI.
(As nml'nd,•d 111111 r,·~·n11ctt•d. S.--t• .\ds
CH' JC'RIF.S
Sg~

I., Who llabh- to sn,·,, on jurl .. s ; who ex:l. ,- I'm pt.
t 3 I .Iurh-»:
how orac1rniz1'II,
i-1·h·et1•d u nd

16.
17
to
19.
~.
21.
~
10
:J6.

f

summon, .. !.
J
·
.
.
.
\. Qu11hflelltio11 u111l tl1s,111Hhllcllt11>11
\ Juror: wlu-n ,•,i·,•pt ... ,J 10·
Ot1!1'.l'r·s fin•• for nP:,:h•ct or duty.
Spt•rii,I juri1•s.
/
;. Pa v or Juril'S.

I

11:18:4. ch. Ka.)

OENERALLY.

or

IMRr.
:.>7 1' .. 111111.Y

I
I

28.

:!9....
:Kl.
31.
:~.

for rrnud on jur,\· box.
Trird of
in which juror j,.. inwrP,.tl•<l.
u'r s1u111· t1·r111. di"•lulllifl .. s him, ••x,·,·pt For ro.rm,•r

1·a""

:tS''t\'

jun· 11111,· ,,.. wai\'1•11 or tlunu1111,.:r rl'tlurP<I i,,· co11s1·11t.
.lurv 1111" vi .. w rlw tir,·mlst•s. ,\:,· .. whvu,
,Jur;,r, ki10wi111! H riwt. must disdos,i it
In opt•n court: ju<l~,· to su inform jurv.
~ .. 1wrson to tnlk t,· juror. nrtn
imp1111,.Jl'd, ,·x,·•·pt h,,· IP»\'<-'or court.

"11hjt•l'.t
or this t.'hnpt'.•r
sr1• I 'rnl••
\ 11.

l!!6<t

'!1.

1

Ilk!:

.\,·~s 186:J.,.'h.ir,J.
lRtl1. ••h. 3.',. I-or
rurttu-r
r,•frrl'lll'I'.

·

lnw

011 1~··

Sl~P

St'C·

r ious.

lV/rn l iubl» to srrr«

1111d

u-ho ,,;c,·mpt us jurors.

1. All male persons who are twenty-one years of age, and not over·''.:!." 11(11.,·!1.:iO.
•
. .
. ~late,
·,
bl e tu serve as 188:!
l!!,~·3· ..t1.4•-i 1.
sixty,
anul w h o are citizens
o f t l 11s
s h a II b e 1·iau
... ti. 8.1.
'Jurors, except us l ierema
· f ter proviid ed .
U!\ll. eh. !:!.
z. 'fht• governor of the State, practicing attorneys and physicinns, N.''i tri:!-:i. ch.
druggists, postmasters, officers of any court, all telegraph operators
actually engaged as.such in any office in this State, and all persons
mentioned in the second and fourth sections of chapter nineteen of
this code as exempted from military duty (except school commissioners, persons exempted under the second section of chapter nineteen of this code by reason of having relatives dependent upon them
for support, or in the military service of the United ~tatt.~s, or of this
State, officers of the militia who resign their commissions ufter serving seven years successively, and otllcers and members of a uniformed
and armed volunteer company, who shall have served three years)
shall he exempt from serving on juries.
a. There shall he two jury commissioners of the circuit court for.\•'"' Ulil.,·h.M.
each county.
They shall he of opposite politics, citizens of good l~I~:;;_ht[.-i i.
standing, resident in the county for which they are appointed, and
;t_, 1;·
well known members of the principal political parties thereof.
They It w. Ya. :!3.
shall be appointed by the circuit court, or the judge thereof in vacation,
of their respective counties.
Their term of office shall be four years,
and shall commence on the first <lay of J nne next after their appointment, but the first two shall be appointed, one for two years and the
other for your years, and thereafter, alternately, for the full term of
four years.
They may he removed from office by the court or judge
having the power of appointment, for official misconduct, incompeteney, habitual drunkenness, neglect of duty or gross immorality.
Vacancies caused by death, resignation or otherwise, shall be filled
for the unexpired term in the same manner us the original appointments.
The jury commissioners shall keep in a well bound book, a
record of the proceedings to be preserved by the clerk of the cirouit
court in his office. They shall receive two dollars per day, for each
day necessarily employed as such jury commissioners, payable out of
the county treasury, upon the order of Urn circuit court.
The first
appointment of said commissioners shall he made within thirty days

::r :t fJ:

:~w;:

Digitized by

Google

774

[CR. 116.

,Jt;RIES.

after this act takes P-tfect. The jury commissioners of each county
shall, at the levy term of the county court thereof, annually, and
at any other time when required by the circuit court of such county,
without reference to party aniliations, prepare a list of such inbahitants of the county, not exempted as aforesaid, as they shall think
well qualified to serve as jurors, being persons of sound judgment
and free from legal exception, which list shall include at least twenty
persons for every thousand inhabitants in such county, but in no
case shall such list include a less number than one hundred persons.
But the name of no person shall be put on such list, who may have
requested the jury commissioners, or either. of them, by himself or
another person, to have his name placed on such list. · Before entering upon the dischnrge of their duties, the jury commissioners
shall take and subscribe an oath to the following effect:
''STATE

Of' "'EST

VIROISIA,

)

ss·
County of ---,
S ·
I, A-H--,
do solemnly swear that I will support the constitution of the United States and the constitutiorr of this State, and
will faithfully discharge the duties of jury commissioner to the best
of my skill and judgment, and that 1 will not place any person upon
the jury list out of fear, favor or affection."
The said oath shall he taken before the clerk of the circuit court,
who is hereby authorized to administer the same, and filed and preserved by him in his office.
There shall also be two jury commissioners for every court of limited jurisdiction, who shall be appointed
by said courts, or the judges thereof in vacation respectively; and
. whose terms of office and compensation shall he the same as the jury
commissioners for the circuit courts.
The same powers conferred
and duties imposed by this chapter upon the circuit courts, or the
judges thereof in vacation, and upon the clerks and jury commissioners of the circnit courts, are hereby conferred and imposed upon
every court of limited jurisdiction and the judges thereof respectively, and upon the clerks and jury commissioners of said courts of
limited jurisdiction.
A,·t" 1R,1.c11.r,o.
4. The list so prepared shall be delivered to the clerk of the cir8·
l81'..l-:i.,·h.-1,.
. t on l y t o th. e mspec
.
t'1011
,~. di. x:!. i
cuiit cour t , t o b e l >Y hiim sa f e l y k ep t , su l ijec
1891·
ch . .J:?.
of the circuit court or the jury commissioners, or of clerk of the circuit court, as hereinafter prescribed, and the circuit court, or the
jury commissioners, may strike from such list the name of any person who has been convicted of any scandalous offence, or been guilty
of any gross immorality, and substitute another in his place.
A,.,,.
187'..l-3. ch.
5. At the time such list is made out, the jury commissioners shall
.J7. ~ \J.
~:i: :;I:: 'tJ: also cause all the names upon the same to he fairly written, each on a
separate paper or ballot, and shall fold or roll up the ballots so as to
resemble each other as nearly as may ho, and so that the name written
thereon shall not be visible on the outside, and shall deposit the ballots in u secure box, to he prepared for the purpose, which shall he
safely kept by the clerk of the circuit court, nod shall be opened only

Digitized by

Google

UH.

116.J

775

JuttIES.

·Nt~

by the order of the jury commissioners, or as hereinafter prescribed.
i'f'2-3 . eh,
6. All jurors required for the trial of cases in any circuit court,
inc]udmg. cases of Ielonv.J' shnll be selected bvJ drawing ballots from or
<St·•· ch. 1~. i 3.
thi~ codfc'. l
the said box in the manner prescribed in this chapter, and the per- 4 w. vn. 173.
·
II W. v», i4!l.
sons whose names are written on the ballots so drawn shall he returned to serve as jurors.
7. The circuit court of any county,,1 bvJ order entered of record, or -ti.
.\,•ts 1~.!-:t ell.
~ 11. :!I.
the judge of any such court in vacation, by written order to the clerk tl!8t. ch. H:1
•
l~I. «-11. .. ~.
of such court, at 'least twenty days before the term, may dispense
with a jury for one of the regular terms, and in such case no renire
facias shall be issued: and no jury summoned for such time until it
is ordered by the circuit court or the judge thereof in vacation.
The
clerk of every circuit court shall. at least thirty days before any time
of such court at which a jury may be wanted, issue a »enirr fncia.~
for thirty jurors, unless the court shall order a greater or less numher, in which event the writ shalt issue for such other number.
Such
writ shall require the attendance of the jurors on the first day of the
court or on such other day thereof as the court or judge may order.
If, in the opinion of any court, a lesser number of jurors than thirty
will usually suffice for the convenient dispatch of the business thereof,
it shall be the duty of such court to enter such opinion of record,
expressing therein the number of jurors proper to be summoned; and
thereafter, until otherwise directed, the n·uirf' fariflH shall not require
a greater number to be summoned to attend such court.
8. At the same time the clerk shall issue a summons in the name .\(•ts tRi'.!-:lch.
of the State requiring the jury commissioners to attend ut the clerk's 1~J !~~. H:l
h .
.
~
l
l .
l 1~1. .. 11. 4:!.
o flt ce o f t e circuit court of such county, on a c ay namer in sue 1
summons, which shall not he less than twenty days before such term,
for the purpose of drawing the ballots for the number of jurors mentioned in said writ.
fl. The writ of 1·,·11iN' fociu» and summons shall he delivered to the .\r.ts 11,i'.!-a. ch.
sheriff or other officer, who shall serve the summons on the jury 1~J.
&1.
11491. «h. -1:!.
. .
·
· · .
comrmssioners
; an d 1it s b a 11 l ie t h e <l utv o f t I ie 3urv
comrmsaioners
to
attend on the day designated in the su~mons, ~t the clerk's office of
the circuit court. of the county, and, in the presence of the clerk of
the circuit court, to draw the proper number of jurors from the box,
and a list thereof to he delivered to the officer serving the summons.
I 0. If either, or both, of the jury commissioners fail to attend as .\,'.t" tfr.'.!.3. ch.
required by said summons, the clerk of the circuit court shall uppoind~J !t. t<.1.
special jury commissioners having the qualifications herein required, IHPI. ,·h. -t:!.
to act in their room, place and stead, for the time being, and such
jurors shall be drawn by said special jury commissioners; and it shull
be the duty of the clerk of the circuit court to place the list thereof
in the hands of the sheriff or other officer. And it shall be the duty
of such otlieer. at least three days before the time when the jurors
are required to attend, to summons ouch person who is drawn, to attend the Milting of the court at U1c time and place mentioned in the

::f: ~:~: ~~:

~t.

Digitized by

Google

't76

[CH. 116 .

•JURIES.

writ, and make due return thereof, and of the summons aforesaid,
to such court, tlt. the opening thereof.
.\,·t .. tir.-.?-a. ch.
11. When jurors are to he drawn as aforesaid, the ballots in the
4,. i II',.
tMI:?. ch. ss.
jury hox shall be shaken and mixed together hy one of the jury
18SIC). ch. ll'>.
1891. .. 11. 4:!.
commissioners, and the other jury commissioner shall openly draw
therefrom as many ballots (without inspecting the names written on
any until the proper number is drawn), as shall he equal to the
number of jurors required: and if any person whose name is so
drawn is unable hy reason of sickness. absence from home or other
cause to attend as a juror, bis name shall, at. the conclusion of such
draft, be returned into the box; or if he be exempted by law, or his
name has been stricken from the jury list, the ballot shall be destroyed, and another shall be drawn in bis stead.
3•
"11·
1 ~- When any person drawn and returned to serve as aforesaid,
4
~':ii·. ~-'i'.-. :: the jury commissioners shall cause to he endorsed on the ballot containing his name, the word ''drawn,·· and shall cause it to be placed
in another box to be kept for the purpose in the custody of the clerk
of the circuit court, amt only opened as hereinafter prescribed ; and
the date of the draft shall he entered on the list of jurors opposite
the name of the person so drawn.
~-~~.J;,11-~t 1 :·t When all the ballots in the jury box ha Ye heen destroyed or
placed in the hox for the ballots marked "drawn,·· except such as
contain the names of those who, for the reasons aforesaid, are unable to attend, the last mentioned box shall he opened in the presence of the officers attending to draw jurors, and the ballots therein
replaced in the jury box, from which drafts shall thereafter again be
made in the manner herein prescribed.
A<"ts
l!r.'.?-:t
ch.
1-!. Nothing contained in the preceding sections shall prevent any
47. ~ 4. IK
court, in term time, from requiring other jurors to be drawn uy the
aa w. v«. -&a.~. clerk, in the presence of the court, und to he summoned whenever it
shall he found necessary for the convenient dispatch of buaiuess.
Hut in such case, the list prepared hy the jury commissioners muter
section three of this chapter, shall be exhausted before another list
is made. The jurors so summoned shall he required to attend on
such <lays as the court shall direct,
Mt,- llr.".?-3. ,.,..
1 f>. If any person duly summoned to attend as a juror in any court
1~J ~-:-._ x:t shall neglect to attend, without any sufficient excuse, he Rh~ll pay a
,~1. ··h. 4~·
fine not exceeding fifty dollars, which shall he imposed by the court.
.\•·•,. ,,.....!-:!. ,·ti.
l fi. Any court. when not incompatible with the proper dispatch of
t~J ";.1;. 1<:t its business, shall have power to discharge persons summoned as
'"~'- ,·ti. 4·!.
jurors therein, or dispense with their uttendunee, on any day of its
sitting.

\~'i ff.?·

i~r

J:;: :~.t-. fJ:

. \f'l,<

·~i'!-:t

1'11.

4,. ~ ~I.
l!Ot.!. ,.•11. K:t
,~1.,·l1.ll.
11'1\ll. cl r. -I~.
:!
\'a.5\1 lllfi.
31 w. \'11. ~5\1.

w.

<i11,, f (lfrul io11 R "nd d iRq11a l 1:,i1·at [on« ,~f .i 11ror.'f-1rlu:11 ,·.r,·rpfnl t...
17. Either party in auy action or suit may, and the court shall, on
motion of such party, examine on oath any person who is called as n
juror therein, to know whether ho is u qualified juror, or is related
to either party, or bus any interest in the cause, or is sensible of any

Digitized by

Google

Ct1.

nu J

777

bias or prejudice therein: and the party objecting to the juror may
introduce any other competent evidence in support of the objection;
and if it shall appear to the court that such person is not a qualified
juror or does not stand indifferent in the cause, another shall be called
and placed in his stead for the trial of that cause.
And in every
case, the plaintiff and defendant may each challenge four jurors peremptorily. In any suit or proceeding in which a county, district
school district, or municipal corporation, is interested, or is a party,
no person shnll be incompetent as a juror because he is an inhabitant
or taxpayer of such county, district, school district or municipal corporation; Prorided, lio1t•,·r,·r, That in any case where a municipal
corporation is interested, or is a party, the court, upon motion of
either. party to the suit, made either on the first day of the term of
the court, or at any other time not less than fl ve days before the day
set for the trial, may order jurors to be drawn in the manner hereinhefore provided, and summoned, none of whom are citizens or taxpayers of such municipal corporation; and if it he under circumstances requiring the issuing of a ren ire f,1ci11.'(, the jury commissioners charged with the duty of drawing the names from the box
shall draw the number required, exclusive of those who are known to
be citizens or taxpayers of such municipnl corporation. Hut this
provision shall not apply in any case between a municipal corporation and any citizen or taxpayer in said corporation.
But in such
case, the list prepared by the jury commissioners under section three
of this chapter, shall be exhausted before another list is made. The
jurors so summoned shall be required to attend on such days as the
court may direct.
Any court of limited jurisdiction heretofore established, or hereafter established, within any incorporated city,
town or village, shall have power; in any such snit or proceeding, to
require the summoning and attendance of jurors from the county who
are not citizens of the municipal corporation. Either the sheriff of
the county. or the oftlcer of such court, who is authorized to execute
its writs in other eases, may summon such jurors.
.\ct s llr.'.?-~. ch.
l R. Xo exception shall he allowed against a juror after he is sworn!~.
8:t
upon the jury, on account of his age or other legal disubility, unless ~~~~1
by leave of court.
lo Grut t , 6:U.
l !I. ~o irregularity in any writ of ren ir« ,1;u·i,, .s, or in the drawing, ,~_et;< .!ti?~ :t ch.
summoning, or impaneling of jurors, shall he sufficient to set nsuk- 1&1:L:"?.'. sa.
1•
~· t un l ess ti.ne par ty ma k·mg
i
tl ie objection
1· .
· ·
ll >.Y tul'1~w.
tS91.t•h.~.
a vcruicr,
was injurer
,·11.2:t
irregularity, or unless the objection was made before the swearing of
the jury.
Offi,·,,rs Ji11,,,/ f,,r m·gln:I of duf,IJ.

:!ii.
~,'~:,:.,19'.!.

20. When by neglect of an_\' of the duties required in this chapter Act,i Hi'.!-3.
to he performed hy any of the ofllcers or persons herein mentioned, !U. ~:1;:"83_
the jurors to hc> returned shall not he duly drawn and summoned to l89L d1. -lt.
attend the court, any person guilty of such 1w~lect shall pay a fine
not exceeding twenty dollars, to Im imposed by the court.

Digitized by

ch.

Google

778

ten.

JutlJES.

116.

Sp,·ci,,/ [uriee.

1~.i'::tl~;~1~7~~ 21.

f~.

Any court may allow a special jury in 'any civil case, upon
motion of all the parties thereto, to be formed in the following manner, viz: The court shall direct a panel of twenty jurors to be
drawn by the clerk, in presence of the court, from the box mentioned in section five of this chapter, who shall be summoned by the
sheriff to attend on the day named in the order, and from which
nu m her sixteen shall be chosen by lot; and the parties thereupon,
beginning with the plaintiff's attorney, shall alternately strike off C:nc
until the number be reduced to twelve; which number shall complete
the jury for the trial of the case. The court ma)' also allow a special
jury in any civil case when the panel of drawn jurors is exhausted,
upon the motion of either of the parties, to be summoned by the
sheriff so far as may be required from the body of the county; but
no such special jury shall be allowed in any case unless the court
certifies of record that the interests of the parties so asking such jury,
will be promoted by the allowunce of such special jury.

ch. R.'J.

t~\';~.' ~i.

Pay of Jurors.
ur.z 3.

ch.

22. F~very person who shall serve upon a grand jury shall be en47. i ~181-1'.!, 1"11. S:3.
titled to receive one dollar and fifty cents for each day he may so
serve, and the same mileage allowed to witnesses, to be paid out of
the county treasury: but he shall not in any case, receive more than
six dollars, exclusive of mileage, for services rendered at one term
of the court .
• \l't!' tM'i'O.ch.oo.
2::l. Any person summoned as aforesaid by virtue of a reu ire /a~,r:!-s, ch. 47· J cias, or otherwise, and actually attending upon the court, or attend1~·"11· sa
ing at the court house at the time summoned, whether he be called to
serve on a jury or not, shall for each day he so attends, be entitled
to receive one dollar and fifty cents, and the same mileage allowed to
witnesses, to he paid out of the county treasury: Proridrd, That for
any day that any person shall be sworn to serve on a case of felony,
he shall for that day be paid two dollars out of the state treasury;
that for each day on which he shall not actually attend at the court
house he shall receive nothing, and that mileage shall be allowed but
once during the term.
There shall be taxed in the costs against
any person against whom a judgment on the verdict of n jury may
he rendered in a case of misdemeanor, and against any person agninst
whom judgment on the verdict of .a jury may he rendered in a civil
action, and against any person on whose motion the verdict of a jury
is set aside and a new trial gmnted, six dollars for jury costs, which
when collected from the party shall he paid into the county treasury.
All moneys so received by the clerk shall he forthwith paid by him
to the sheriff, and the clerk and his sureties shall be liable therefor
on his official bond, as for other mo1wJs coming to his hands by virtue
of his office. The clerk of the circuit court of Poch county shall
annually certify to the county court a list of all mom•ys so paid to
him and by him paid to the sheriff', und in addition thereto a correct
.A1•ts

Digitized by

Google

CH. 116.]

779

JURIES.

list of all cases in which jury fees have been taxed, and are at the
time properly due and payable into the county treasury; and the sheriff
of the county shall be held to account, in his annual settlement for
all such moneys collected by him.
24. No juror who shall depart without leave of the court, or being 4\~tf :W.~3. ch,
summoned as a witness for the State, shall charge for his attendance 188'-. ch. 83.
as such, shall be entitled to receive any compensation for his services
as a juryman.
25. The clerk of any court upon which juries are in attendance :i\«:t~ ~f2.a. ch.
shall, before the final adjournment of each term, and under the dich. 83.
rection of the court, make an entry upon its minutes, stating separately the amount which each juror is entitled to receive out of the
state treasury, or out of the county treasury for his services or attendance during the term. · It shall he the duty of such clerk, as
soon as practicable after adjournment of the court, to transmit to
the auditor, certified copies of ull orders under this section, making
allowances payable out of the the state treasury. Any such clerk
who shall foil to pny over, as required by law, any moneys so received by him, or otherwise to comply with the provisions of this
chapter, shall he guilty of a misdemeanor and fined not less than fifty
dollars.
:!ti. It shall he the duty of such clerk, as soon as practicable after4\~1~ :.7'.!·3, ch.
the adjournment of the court, to deliver to each juror a certified copy 1&rl ch. 83.
of any order under the preceding section making an allowance to him,
payable out of the state treasury or out of the county treasury; and
the sheriff of such county shull, upon demand, pay to such juror the
amount allowed him, which shall he repaid to the sheriff out of the
the state treasury or out of the county treasury, upon the production
of satisfactory proof that the same has uctually heen paid by him.
If uuy sheriff fail to pay any such allowance us required by law, he
may he proceeded nguinst as for a contempt of court.

1~l

/',,11,tlt.11.for fraud

011

Jur.1/

lnr.«,

27. l f any person shall he guilty of any frnud, either hy practicing .\,·ts 187!!-3, ch.
on the jury box previously to a draft, or in drawing a juror, or in
~h. 83.
returning into the jury box the name of any person which bas lawfully been drawn out, und drawing and substituting another instead,
or in faili11g to place SHC'h name in the box for the ballots marked
+drawn, .. or in any other way in the drawing of jurors, he shall, on
conviction thereof, bl' punished by a tine not exceeding five thousand
dollars.

1is-l

Trial of ras« in 1rl,i,·l1 juror i.~ i,i1,,,., . .,,fr,I

al

su uu: term, di.•u111al1'fi,·.~

/,i111.

28 . No person shall serve as a juror, except in trials for felony, Ad,. 1872·3. ch.
at any term of a court <luring which he has any matter of fact toil~ 1~1.~·. sa
tried by a jury, which shall have been, or is expected to be, tried 3t w.vs. -t5'f.
during the same term.

Digitized by

Google

780

[Cu. 117'.

CLERKS OF COURTS.

.\els 18i9-3. ch.
4i. ~ 31',.
l~l. ch. 83.
I:? Uratt. tllll.
13 (irntt. 42i.

Trial l,y jury m.".IJ l,r n·Hirnl, or tl,r· u umln:r reduced f,y cousrn! .

29. In any case, except a case of felony, in which a trial by jury
would he otherwise proper, the parties or their counsel by consent
11 W. v», 5.15.
entered of record, may waive the right to have a jury, and thereupon
I:? W. \'a.~It! W. \"11. 522. the whole matter of law and fact shall be heard and determined,
and
18 w. v 11. :?i-i.
~I W. v«. 450. judgment given by the court; or by like consent,
the
jury
may
con:?;J W. Vn. 4i'J.
:?4 w · v«, fll15001.sist of seven, and in that case a verdict shall be as valid, and have
:!f\W. Ya ..
31 w. V11. 16:?. the same effect as if it had been found bv a jury of twelve.
•w.\·11.1~.

34

w. Va.78.

139.

,~c~t;~. tr..!-3, ch.
4,. t .16.
IH!t.!. ch. 83.
1-t C,ratl.·141U70.
34 w. va.100.

~

1 ·;,,,,·it.
30. The jury may, in any case, at the request of either party, he
•
•
I
.
.
taken to view the premises or pace in question, or any property,
•
l
.
h
1
·
matter or thing re atmg to t e controversy ietwecn t h e parties,
w lion
it shall appear to the court that such view is necessary to a just decision, and in such case the judge presiding at the trial may go with
the jury and control the proceedings ; and in a felony case the judge
and clerk shall go with the jury and the judge shall control the proceedings, and the accused shall likewise be taken with the jury, or if
under recognizance shall attend the view and his recognizance shall
be construed to require such attendance. The party making the
motion in a civil case, shall advance a sum sntllcient to defray the
expenses of the jury and the offlcers, who attend them in taking the
view; which expenses shall be afterwards taxed like other legal costs.

xl1t·rijj".
ch.
31. A juror knowing anything relative to a fact in issue shall dis4
:f.~-.~~·/k;. close the same in open court, hut not to the jury out of court; and
the court shall inform the jury of this provision.
Ac~t" 18'i".!-:3. ch.
:-l~. After u jury hns been impaneled, no sheriff or other ofllcer
47. ~ =~181{:!, ch. 1t1.
shall converse with, or permit any one else to converse with a juror,
unless by leave of court.
('o11d11ct of juror."

011,l

\"t:J.m-a.

CHAPTER CXVII.
( .\,.. 11 nu-mh-d

II

nrl ro>-1•1111c·t•••I.

St:c.
I St:c.
t. 1:1,·rks'offi('""'nllC' c•\'11111i1wtl: ,·0111J)l'll·
IJ.
,11lion th••r•·for.
·• ( 'lt·rks' ollh-1·,- of ,·nurt .. : wh-r« k•·pl.
10.
:t \\'h11t /mp,•r" k••pl in ,•l,•rk.s' ollk•·...
.f. H,•c•or, s 1111,l p:qwr,nf II c•ourt 11111 to 111· II.
r1•11111,·1·,l out of ,•,.11111.,·: 1·x1'.1•pt wlu-u :
p•·1111lty 1111 elt·rl.: for vio lu t lon.
F11r r .. r m » r
law
011
t lu- r,. Rc•,•ord" n nd p:q"'r" "1'"11 to i11s111·,·tio11
of
a11~ p•·r,nn: ,·t,·rl. !11 furni .. h ,·,,pit· ... I:!.
,-11lij,•c•t of Ihi"
,\c•.: 1•\1•1·pl \\ lu-u.
t:l.
1• h II pt c• r
,.,.,,
6.
('l,·rk
1111<1 cl,•puty 11111, :11l111i11i,-.t"r 1111ths.,
( 'rnfr v». l~IO.
1:t11.
,.1,,
ttl.1. For 1. C'l,·rk In pr,•pur,· h1111,ls. ,\,·.
ot h•·r r•·f•·r,.11- 8. 11111.,· nf ,·1,·rk u, to jud:.:111,·uh n ud ,I,·· 1 t:lh.
o,r,.,,,. of pnrtitin11 :111cl a,,-illllllll'III
of
«· ,. '""· ."- .... ~ , ••••
dowc·r. ,\1•.
I
tlnn,..

·'"'" t8i,,,rh.'i:t

S.••• .\,·t" tkia. d1. 7:J.

l

l'lt•rkof
c•ir,•ult,•ourt to k, .. -p nn .. ,, .. -ut i.rn 11111,I,;, ,\,•.
( 'lc•rk of ,,,·,·n 1..011rt lo i11cl,•x t h« h1N1l.;,
of hi, 11tli,·•<
C'l,•rl; to dl'll\·c·r pr,w.,,,-, .\,· .. to ,;;lwriff'.
,\,• .. lo l,:,•,·p 1•rcw•,•s,- l,ool,: 1111,I w hut to
Ii,· ,·11l•·r<·<I t wr,•111: t,, tak•· r,•1•1•ip1 ..
fr,.111 otll,·,·rs. ,\c·.
or pr,w,•s, ,,•111 toc·lo>rk h.,· 11111il.
~" ,lupli<-1111• 1•,•rt ill,·111 .. of 1111 111low11u..-.•:
,.,,.,.p, wlu-u.
I_ I 'l••rl.:s to 111111,:c• 11111111111 r,•1w,rt,- 111 th,•
1 ,111,litotr; whut to1·011tui11. ,\r.

l. The supremo court of appeals and any
shall annually appoint two or more p<'rs0118
oftice of such court. They shall examine the
<lit1011 of the records and papen; in the otllce,

circuit or county court
to exmuine the clerk's
fee-books nml tho eonand report whether the

Digitized by

Google

Cu, 111.J

CLERKS

or Conars,

781

clerk has faithfully discharged his duties.
The court may allow to
each person making such examination, u sum not exceeding five dollars, to be paid out of the county treasury, when the examination is
of the office uf the circuit or county court, and out of the state treasury when it is of the office of the court of appeals.
~- The clerk's ofllce of the supreme court of appeals shall be kept Jcl.
at the seat of government, unless such court shall direct it to be kept
elsewhere.
The clerks office of the circuit court and county court
for every county shall be kept at the court house of such county, unless there shall have been a failure to provide such offices there, in
which case the clerks' offices may he kept at such other place within
the county as the court may direct.
:l. All papers lawfully returned to, or filed in the clerk's office Id.
shall be preserved therein. until legally delivered out.
4. None of the records or papers of a court shall be removed by IJ.
:\tits 18'i"i.ch.60.
the clerk nor allowed by the court to be removed out of the county
wherein the clerk's office is kept, except on au occasion of invasion
or insurrection, actual or threatened, when in the opinion of the
court, or in a very sudden case, of the clerk, the same will be endangered, after which they are returned as soon as the danger ceases,
and except in such other cases as are specifically provided for by law.
Any clerk violating this section, shall forfeit six hundred dollars.
But this act shall not be so construed as to prevent a judge of a circuit court from taking files of papers from any county of his circuit
or directing the clerk to send such files to him, when necessary to be
used in vacation.
5. The records and papers of every court shall be open to the in- Acts 1875,cb.7'J.
spection of any person, and tile clerk shall, when required, furnish
copies thereof, except in cases where it is otherwise specially provided.
I<l.
G. Any clerk of a court, or his deputy, may administer an oath in"5 <..rat!·~\\ . \ a. 234.
any case wherein an affidavit is necessary or proper.
1 w, Ya. 467.
7. Every clerk shall prepare in a proper manner, any bond to he .\cts 187a,ch.,J.
taken by or given before him or bis court.
8. The clerk of the court wherein there is any partition of, or IJ.
assignment of <lower in, land under any order, or any recovery of
land under judgment or decree, shall transmit to the clerk of the
county con rt of each county wherein such land is, a copy. of such
order, judgment or decree, and of such partition or assignment, and
of the order confirming the same. and along therewith, such description of the land as may appear in the papers of the cause, and the
report of such partition or assignment.
Such clerk shall record the
same in his deed hook, und index it in the name of the person who
had the land before, and also in the name of the person who became
entitled under such partition, assignment or recovery. And every
such record shall be as effectual, in cases of partition, to convey the
legal title of such lunds to the person to whom the same is assigned
by the report of the commissioners, and decree of the courts as deeds

Digitized by

Google

782

[CH. 117.

CLERKS OF COURTS.

of partition would be if duly made by the parties.
A clerk failing
to perform :my duty required of him by this section, shall forfeit not
less than twenty dollars nor more than one hundred dollars.
1,1.
!J. The clerk of every circuit court shall keep an execution book,
,\i'.I,- tAA2.,·h.30..
. eac h case w h erem
. an execution
, h as .issueu,,l
I w,1sh. 14.
m w hlre h h e s l iu ll enter, m
the names of the parties, the time of the judgment, the amount
thereof, and u reference to the page of the order book wherein the
amount appears, the date of each execution, nature thereof, when
returnable, and, if return he made thereon, the nature of such return.
•1't;~: ~~t:{ih.i3. 10. The clerk of every court shall have an index to each book he
is required to keep, making convenient reference to every order, record, or entry therein.
Every execution, and every judgment or
decree for money, shall be indexed as well in the name of the person against whom, us in the name of the person in whose favor the
same is. A clerk failing to perform any duty required of him by
this section, shall forfeit not less than twenty nor more than one
hundred dollars.
.\ct,- 1R;r,.l't1.i3.
11. The clerk of every court, from whose office may he issued any
process, original, 11us11,· or final, or nny order or decree, to be served
on any person, shall, unless the party interested, or his attorney, direct otherwise, deliver the same to the sheriff or other officer of the
county for which the court is held, if it is to be executed therein,
and if it is to he executed in any other county, shall inclose the same
to the sheriff or other orflcer thereof, put it in the postofflce and pay
the postage thereon.
The clerk shall keep a process hook, wherein
there shall he an entry of every such process, order or decree, showing its nature, date, und return <fay, the person to whom, and time
when it was delivered, or if it was mailed, the time thereof. and the
person to whom it was enclosed.
From any officer to whom there is
such delivery, the clerk shall take a receipt in bis process book.
LI.
1 ~- If there come directed to u clerk, by mail, a letter, with no
endorsement on the envelope of the parties names, and the nature
of the prol't'SS enclosed, he shall take the same out of the postottlce,
and pn.y such postage as may he pnyuhle thereon.
13. There shall II(' no duplicnte cortificnte of any allowance of n
hi.
court to lw paid out of tho treasury, unless the court, upon proof.
by the oath of the party or otherwise, of the loss or destruction of
the original cortiflcute. shall order a duplicate: it shall show on its
fnce that it is a duplicate issued hy order of the court.
Any clerk
who shall issue a duplicate otherwise, shall forfeit one hundred dollars.
( 'lrrl:« ,if C()11rt.« r,·,,ui,·,·d 111 r,p11rt crrttt iu muttrr« to thr ,11ulitor.
[Jaa. I. It shall be the duty of the clerk of the supreme court of
.\,•t ~ 11-17:.!·!.I. rvh ,
1411.
appeals, and the clerks of the circuit and county courts, on or IM"l!'l'i"i. I'll. l(t
fore Urn first day of ( Jctobor in each yeur, to report to the auditor the
number of suits commenced. pending and decided in their respective
courts: and till' number of days the courts were in session: and the
averuge number of hours of each day's session; and the clerks of the

Digitized by

Google

CH.

118.J

783

CI,ERKB OF Cot:NTY Cot7RTS.

county courts shall, moreover, include in their reports the amount of
debts or claims against the counly, levied for during the year, showing separately the amount levied for county, jury, court, school,
road, salary of county officers, elections, and other purposes, and
the per centum of each on the taxable property of the county during
the preceding year.
II. Any clerk failing to discharge the duties required of him by
18..-.!·3. ch.
the preceding section shall forfeit one hundred dollars.
Ill. It shall be the duty of the auditor to furnish said clerks, forms Id.
for such reports and to condense the matters contained therein, and
make them part of his annual report to the legislature. J
[Jab. 1. That it shall be the dutvJ of the clerk of the circuit court tru
.\cts 1~· (M;!W>'SIOII) cit.
for each county, in addition to the reports of fines; jurors and wit-;.
nesses otherwise provided for by law, to transmit to the auditor,
within thirty days after the adjournment of each term of the court, a
report of all claims allowed and certified by such court, for payment
out of the state treasury. Said report shall show in whose favor the
claim is allowed, for what purpose and the amount thereof.
II. It shall he the duty of the auditor to furnish the clerk with Id.
blank forms for said reports, and when made out and returned to the
auditor he shall cause the same to he recorded in a book to be kept
by him for that purpose.
Ill. If any clerk or the auditor fail to perform any duty required Id.
in this chapter, he shall forfeit one hundred dollars.]

u:

l'IL\PTEH
(.\,.a11w11d,•d

<'XVIII.

anti r,·,.1aal'f•·•I.

S,·,• .\els IXKl.l.'11. ll.1

OJ,' THE PROBATE OJ,' WII.I.S, Tilt: .-\l'POIST:\IE:li'f OJ,' ~\l'PR.:\olSERS of,' THE
ESTATE OJ,' Dt:CJ-:HE:STS .-\Sil THE .\PPOl~'l':\IEXT
TIOS OF' Pl-:RSO:'IIAI, REPRJo:8ENTATIYE!.\

ANJI QliALU'll'A-

<HiARJ>I.\:SS,

('O:\L\IIT-

TEJo:S AND C'l:RATOR8, ()t:RIXH THE RECESS OJ,' TIIE RE<l
(;J,AR

szssrox Of,'

TIIJo.:

s~:c.
I. ()urin;: r .. ,_.,.,.,. or ,:011111 v <'ourt. ,·l,•rk 11111 v
admit will,- to r,•ri,r,I. up,,oint unit
411111ify ••x1•c11tors. ,\1• .. tnkr- ,01111.,, ,\:1•.
2. Appolut.nu-ut,
.\:,,., to lx- r1•por1t•d 111
co1111ty,,011rt:
pro1•t•1•di11gs tlwr,•i11.
3. Confirmntion of uetlou of l'lt·rk; its ,•fr .. ct.
-1. In ca,;P or coutr-st. µr,·vailing pnrty to

n-eover c•o~t~.

couxr r

For
Iorm e r
laws
on
th«
i.ubjt•ct or this
of 1•nu11ti,•,; !i11,·i111,! t r ibu nu l forc.hnpt,"r,
"'"t'
poli•·•·1111<1 11,;,~al purpost•s. to ImVP tht' < od« \ 11. lSIX>,
pnw,•r;. 1111,I di,.,·trnr!,!•• tluti•·s of c111111tr ch. l:!'.!: t'0!1st:
,·,111rt.s us to tlrlue in rv 11111tl,.r,;,.\:,•,: 11~1 186.'J, art. vii.§
jun· to 1,., impan;,1,.,1
lwforP s11d1 6: .\d!' 1863.ch.
,·l1•rk: rlt•rk to k,•,·p un ordr-r hook I: ch. 36. For
n nd «u ter all 1111111 .. rs 11f prohnti· .• \:,•.. ; otlu-r r,·f1•rP11·
n)>tK•a!s
to e ircult ,,ourt: e1-rt11ln C'.'s, !'l'l' llf'C·
s111•1•ial d11ti1•,- or Stll'li l'lt•fl,:, whr-n lo uous.
t,,. p••rform,•d.

COl;JtTS.

SF.c
-ta. t'lt•rk

1. The clerk of any county court durmg the recess of the regular ,s.,.- AcMB'i'Z-3.
•
'
•
li8, I\IIU i.t•t•
sessions
o f sue h court, may appoint
appraisers
o f estates o f ,Iuece- ch.
ch. rt. s 26, of
dents, admit wills to record, appoint nod qualify executors, adminis- ~!:!~;;tJ..!.urt.
trators, guardians, curators and committees, and require and take ~~1~~}1:i.ch.n.
from them the necessary hOD<lS, in the same manner and With like
.C~:ltt°~.
effect for the time heing, as the said county court could do if in ses-:;
sion; but no contest as to such probate or appointment shall be heard
or determined by such clerk. Any flducinry mentioned in this section
desiring to resign his trust, may file his petition for that purpose in

:r~,·

ft!:~~:

Digitized by

Google

784

[CH. 118.

CLERKS OF COUNTY COURTS.

the county court of the county in which be was appointed as such,
stating the names of all persons, so far as known hy him, interested
in the estate in his hands or under his control. and to which his duties
as such fiduciary relate, and if any of them Le infants, non-residents
of the State or married women, or if there be persons interested in
such estate whose names are unknown, all of such facts shall be
stated in the petition.
And the court upon such petition being filed,
shall award a summons against all the persons so named and the
guardians of such as are infants, if they have any (whose names shall
also be stated in such petition), and against · 'the unknown parties in interest" (if any there be), mentione-l in said petition, to appear on a
day named in the order, not less than thirty dny8 from the filing of
said petition, and answer the same, and state to the court the reasons,
if any they have, why the said petition should not. he granted.
If
any of the persons so interested reside in another county in this
State, the summons as to them shall he directed and sent hy mail by
the clerk to the sheriff of that county to be served and returned by
him; and as to the persons, named in said petition. who reside out
of this State or who can not, by the use of due diligence, he found,
and said unknown parties, an order of publication shall be awarded
against them, which shall be posted and published as in other cases.
And when the summons shall be served as to all the parties named
and referred to in the petition herein provided, the case shall he set
for hearing.
If no objection be made to the resignation of such
fiduciary by any person interested in the estate mentioned in the petition, his resignation may be accepted and entered of record hy the
court. But if objection be made by any such person on the ground
that such fiduciary has not fully settled and accounted for the estate
committed to' his care, at the time of filing bis petition, or for any
other valid reason, the petition and objections shall be referred to a
commissioner of accounts, or to u special commissioner appointed
for the purpose, to do and perform such duties, and report upon such
matters and things as are stated in the order of reference. and report
the same to the court.
And the same proceedings may he had upon
such report when read: as if it were made to tho circuit court in a
suit in chancery, in that court.
Tf it shall appear to the court in any
such case that such fiduciary bas not. fully settled and accounted for
the estate committed to bis charge, or that there is money or other
property in his hands, or under his control, not yet paid over or disposed of, such orders ns may he necessary and proper for the disposition and safe keeping thereof shall he made hy the court, and when
such orders are complied with by such fiduciary, his resignation
may be accepted.
Rut his resignation when so accepted, shall not
affect or impair the liability of the securities of such fiduciary. on
his otllcial bond in force at the time of his resignation and the acceptance thereof, for any default by him in the discharge of his duties
as such fiduciary, remaining unsettled or unsatisfied.
The costs in
such cases shall be paid as t-ae court may order.

Digitized by

Google

CH. 118.J

Appointments; etc., to he reported to

•

785

CLERKS OF COUNTY COURTS.
,~ounfy cuttrf-procn·di119s

therein,

2. The probate of everv
will and the appointment of every~ ap- ~!1"_t.
187'.!, urt.
"J
Vilt s ~.
praiser of the estate of a decedent, executor, administrator, guardian, Act:~ 1881.ch.11.
curator and committee so made by sucb clerk, shall be reported by
him to the next regular session of the county court, when, if no objection be made thereto, the court shall confirm the same. But
if objections be made by any person interested, the county court
shall hear and determine the same, and shall proceed in relation
thereto in the same manner as if the application for the probate of
such will or the appointment of such appraiser of the estate of a
decedent, executor, administrator, guardian, curator or committee
had been made to said court.
And the court may make from time
to time, pending such proceedings, such orders as it may deem necessary for the protection and safe-keeping of the estate of the testator or intestate.
Cm,firuwlifJII of w:tion of cfrrl.·-il.~ ,:ff,·,·/.
3. When the probate of such will, or the appointment and qualifl- Act" 1881,ch.ll.
cation of such appraisers of estates of decedents, or the appointment
of such executor, administrator, guardian, curator or committee is
confirmed by tbe court, with or without contest, the same shall be
held and treated in ull respects as if the will had been admitted to
record, or the appointment had been made by the county court in the
first instance.
/11 case of contest, prc1:aili,1g parf.1J to recover cost»,
4. When objection is made to the action of the clerk, as mentioned Id.
in the second section of this chapter, the party prevailing in the trial
of such objections shall recover from the opposite party his costs.
[ -In. I. In every county in which now exists a tribunal for police tMlt
and fiscal purposes, heretofore established, under section thirty-four
of article eight of the constitution of the State, the clerk mentioned
in the twenty-sixth section of the amendment of one thousand eight
hundred and eighty, to the constitution, shall exercise any powers
and discharge any duties conferred on or required of the court or tribunal.. heretofore established for judicial purposes in such county,
or the clerk thereof, before the adoption of such amendment; and
any powers and duties now or hereafter conferred on or required of,
county courts in other counties, or the clerks thereof (except as
herein otherwise provided), respecting the recording and preservation
of deeds and other papers presented for record, respecting.matters
of probate, the appointment and qualification of personal representatives, guardians, committees, curators, and the settlement of their
accounts, and respecting all matters relating to apprentices.
Such
powers and duties may l;e exercised and discharged, as well during
the sessions of the circuit court and of the tribunal for police and
fiscal purposes in such county, as at other times. In any matter,
with respect to which the said clerk of such tribunal, established for
judicial purposes as aforesaid, shall he interested, so that it will be

Digitized by

~f.:'3t

1·12·

Google

786

[CH. 119.

ATTORNEYS AT LAW.

. \ct .. t!!Rl,ch.7:!.

Id.

Id.

improper for him to act therein, such powers and duties other than
such as are judicial in their nature, may be exercised and discharged,
in the office of the last mentioned clerk, by the clerk of the circuit
court of the same county, and such powers and duties, so far as the
same are judicial in their nature', may be exercised and discharged
by any judge of the circuit court of the same county, in the office of
the clerk of the county court .
I I. No jury shall be impaneled before such clerk to settle questions of fact.
Tll. Such clerk shall keep an order hook in which shall be entered
all orders made by him respecting matters of probate, the appointment and qualification of personal representatives,
guurdiuns, committees, curators or apprentices.
Any person interested may, within one year after the entering of such an order, nppenl . therefrom
to the circuit court of the county.
Upon application being mude
for such appeal, the said clerk shall enter in his order hook an
order allowing such appeal, and shall transmit to the clerk of the
said circuit court, all pupers and copies of all orders pertaining to
the matter.
The circuit court. shall hear and determine the matter
as though it had been presented to the said circuit court in the first
instance, and shall cause a copy of the order cmhracing its final action therein to be transmitted to the said clerk of the county court
who shall enter the same in his order hook. .\t any time after such
appeal is allowed, the said circuit court, or the judge thereof, may
make any such order for the protection of tho parties interested, or
for the protection or preservation of any property involved, us might
have been made had the matter been origiunlly presented to the snid
circuit court.
IV. When any net is required to be done by clerks of county
courts of other counties on the first dnys of the terms of the county
courts, such clerk of the county court in every county in which such
special tribunal for police and fiscal purposes was established as
aforesaid, shnll perform such net, under the same reguluuons and
penalties, on the days appointed by law for the regular meetings of
the tribunal for police and fiscal purposes in his county.]

CHAPTER. CXIX.
1.\s

a11w111l,•1l :111<1 rl'-<•11:11•1,•,I.

s,,,.. \ets

I~.!. di. lltt.1

*

01'' .\TTORSEY-AT-LA
W.
S,:c.
St:c.
'i. Hid11 11f ,•11urt to r,•,p1ir1· ~,·,·11r11~ for
For formrr law I. Li,'~'r"z'1::;,1;:1
1!::~t:~:h•1111 :.mrnt·
:.ro111l lwhavior or fin,. for ,•,.nt<•111pl.
011 lhP suhj,•et ·• l'••rson autli••riz,•tl to pruct iv« in u norhvr
not atT1·<'1,•d.
or this •~hnpt,•r,
st11t,·. 11111\" do so llt'r••.
11. I '••rln in ollt,·•·rs forhi,l<l,·11 to pra,·t i,·,·
SPt' Cot!,•
'l Oath!" of ut turm-vs at law.
law in ,·,.rtain ,:ourts.
1.~~r\,,hcht•r. r,,1,6,.'r: :.: l',·nnll\· for pra~ticilll! without lk,•11,-1•
9
1
I L111h1
· T '.'Y of ut torn ...v to hlts,. ru-ut.
or taki111.: oath: ,.,,·,.pt ion.
t'IICPS,
s••tt
a.
Court. to sup1•rs,.1l1• lio'.1.-11-<,. of urtorm-v
tion s,
~011\·k1 .. i1 ,,, r .. 1011,·.
12. .\ ttort11·~· 111 h,· 11,·harrl'd from 1-•~•:tkiuf!
In , .... r,:Lin ,·a . . , .....
6. How 111•1•11;0• may ,;,. ><t1sp,.11,l,•<I or 1111·
1:1. H,•111,•oly or 11ttur111·~· fnr s,·r\"i, .. •;;.
uulled for mn.lpract.le».

~~~~j:\:;\;:~;:j

v~.

~~- i

m.

•.\s to tlw pt1w,•rs.1luti"""·
a nd r .. ~pon,ihiliti•·s 1!••11,·rally .,f111tor1wn,. ,.. ... , '.\tunr.
:'ii.
-4!l~,: I Wa~h. 10: 'J II.,\ :\L ._~: I l'all lli: 'J ("all 411~: 4 t'all 97: r, h:11111. 6:39: t I.,•hth '!':'i:
HI L•·h:h It!;; lirntt. I~; :i W. v«. 1117: 4 \\'. \"H. r,:19: 7 w. v«. :.Jfl: ~ W. \":1. ~:
10 w \"•·
j0t\: 13\\".\'n.29.4-W.7111.'ill:
l:1 W.\·11.l\ll'i: lt\W.\'a.:~.S7.:l78.i:ll\,1'i61:
1i,1W.\"a.5e.
4~. tH:!: ~) w. Va. r.u: 21 W. v». err. :!'J w. \'11. H, 387; 'J-4 W. Va. 71Si: ~ W. \'11. l~ :54.
ttlt!; ~ W. v«. ~">: :n W. v«. II~; 3.f W. Va. 3.'l:J.

Digitized by

Google

,

CH.

nn.j

787

ATTORNEYS AT LAW.

s:

1. .Any person desiring to obtain a license to practice law in the
l8i.!-3. ch.
courts of this State, must appear before the county court of the:~:~~:
county in which he has resided for the last preceding year, and prove
to thesatisfaction of such court that he is a person of good moral
character, that he is twenty-one years of age, and that be has resided
in such county for one year next preceding the date of his appearance; and upon such proof heing made, the court shall make and
enter an order on its record accordingly.
And any three judges of
the courts of this State, may, upon the production of u duly certified
copy of such order, and after a full and thorough exuminntion of the
applicant upon all the various branches of the law, a knowledge of
which is necessary in the practice thereof in this State, if they find
him duly and sufticiently qualified to practice law in the courts of this
Stnte, grunt him a license in writing to do so; and such license shall
show upon its fuee that all the provisions of this section have been
folly complied with. l'ro1:id,·d, Tunt any person who shall produce
n duly certified <"opy of such order of any county court of this ~late,
and also a diploma of graduation from the law school of the W est
\'irginia University, shall upon presentation thereof, in any of the
courts of this State, he entitled tu practice law in any and all courts
of this State ; and the order so admitting him shall state the facts
pertaining to the same.
~- Any person duly authorized and practicing as counsellor or at- i~~~ !~i~'t:~.
torney-at-law in any state or territory of the United ~tatcs, or in the
District of Columbia, may practice as such in the courts of this State,
upon producing before the courts in which be intends to pructice, satisfactory evidence of his being so authorized.
:1. ~~very attorney-at-law shall, before each court, in which he pro-.,,.,,; 1Htl6.,·11.:io.
'
IHf>II. eh. :n
poses to practice, take the following oath, that is to say: If he be 111811:, ,·.ti. 10 .
.
l
f I . ·,
l
l
.
.
f h IR8'~. «h. I It\.
resu cnt o t 118 ~tale, an oat 1 to support t 1c constitution o t e 1 '.\t1111r. 111K
I ' niter
. 1 ~tntes
•
.
.
.'
' . :!I w.
w. ,·a.l~.f-.69.
v u. :!tlU.
an d t l re coustitution
o f t h c ~tatc
o f \\' est \"· irguuu,
4 w. v It. :!IU.
hi
If
.
h
.
f
h
1
...1
.
l
am1 to l rouest 1 y (l emeun imse m t e practice o t e uw, nnn tot re
best of his ahi lity execute his office of attorney-at-law; and if be be
not a resident of this State, an outh to support the constitution of the
United States, and to honestly demean himself in the practice of the
law, and to the best of his ability execute his ottlcc of attorney-athtw.

s:

--1. If any person shall practice law in any court of this State,
without being so licensed, or without taking the oaths required, he aw.
shnll forfeit one hundred and fifty dollars. for each case in which he
shall appear as attorney, one half whereof shall go to the informer.
But this penalty shall not he incurred by any attorney for instituting
suits in the circuit courts after obtaining a license, if he shall qualify
at the first term thereafter of the circuit court of any county of the
circuit in which be resides.
5. Any court before which any attorney ha.'! been-qualified, or proof .\d,;
made to it, that be has been convicted of nny felony, may supersede "6·

g~-

t&t!.

ch.

\'n .. ua

IH8'.!.

,·ti.

bis I icense.

Digitized by

Google

788

ATTORNEYS

[<'n. 119.

AT LAW.

., .. 1,.. ncr.!-3, ch.

(_;, l f the supreme court of appeals or any circuit or county court
observe
any malpractice therein by any attorney, or if complaint he
6 l.•·ld16III.
-l W. v«. i-19.
made
to
any of said courts of malpractice by any attorney therein,
:?:! w. \'11. 3M'i.
et W. \'a.:~;.
such court shall order the attorney to be summoned to show cause
aa w. v a. eso.
why his license shall not he suspended or annulled and upon the return of the summons executed. if the attorney appear and deny the
charge of malpractice, :t jury shall be impaneled to try the same;
and if the attorney be found guilty, or if he fail to appear and deny
the charge, the court may either suspend or annul the license of such
attorney as in its judgment shall seem right; and whenever a judgment or decree shall be standing or rendered in either of said courts
against an attorney for money by him collected as such, it shall be
the duty of such court to suspend the license of such attorney until
such judgment or decree shall be satisfied.
i\'t' t8tt!, ch. 7. Xothing in the preceding section shall affect the right of any
court to require from an attorney therein, security for his good behavior, or to fine him for a contempt of the court.
H. If any clerk, sheriff, or any deputy of either, or any person inId.
terested in the profits of any such office, shall act as attorney-at-law
in any case in any court of which such clerk or sheriff is an officer,
be shall forfeit thirty dollars.
Id.
!I. Every attorney-at-law shall be liable to his client for any dam:! ,,·11,.h. :l.13.
ages sustained by the neglect of his duty as such attorney.
.\,•1 s 188:!, ,•h.
10. Tf any attorney-at-law or agent shall by his negligence or imus.
proper conduct, lose any debt or other money, he shall he charged
with the principal of what is so lost, and interest thereon, in like
manner as if he had received such principal, and it may be recovered
from him by suit or motion.
,\,•ts IH"i\l.,·h.ii.
11. If any attorney receive money for his client as such attorney
~ I.
lAA~. ,·h. Ill\.
and fail to p:ty the same on demand, or within six months after
I II.,\ :\I. t.!i.
:I l'a II 'MJ.
receipt thereof, without good and sufficient reason for such failure,
it may he recovered from him hy suit or motion ; and damages in
lieu of interest not exceeding fifteen per centum per annum until
paid, may be awarded against him, and he shall he deemed guilty of
a ruisdemennor and he fined not less than twenty nor more than five
hundred dollars.
.\ .. ,,.. 11-(ill.,·h.ii.
I~. Any attorney convicted under the eleventh section of this
p.
II*''~. ,·h. 116.
chapter, shall in addition to the punishment therein prescribed, he
debarred from practicing as an attorney in any of the courts of this
State, and the same shall he entered hy the court as part of its
judgment.
i\t' IAA-.!. 1'11. 1 R. An attorney shall he entitled for his services as such, to such
~J_'11'- ,\: Hvut h. sum as he may contract for with the party for whom the service is
;)k\\~.~-'fb. rendered; and in the uhsence of such contract. he may recover of
rn w. v». :m1. such party, what his services were reusonahlv worth.
:!'.! \\". Vu. ill!.
14.",.
l~.,·h.116.

31 W. \'11. llltl.

Digitized by

Google

CH. 120.]

:\ TTORSF.Y-'1-ESERA 1,-PROSEC'UTING

789

ATTORSEYR.

CllAPTlm CXX.
s. -v

L\!l n11w11<1,.,1111111 r,·-1·11:wto·d.
01-' THE

ATTORSEY-Ot:SERAL

S11:c.
I I
to •. \tor11,.\'·l!•'tll'n1l:

rd

fl.

,.

·

hi,- dutlt•-.111111

.\SI>

ornxa

f,.,.,..

IH!-t.!. •·h. 1:13. t

ATTORSEY~

t'OR THE

STATE.

i'"or form,•r
luw
011 ti,,. suhjPet
l'tr"'.>11 11111y Ptn1,>loy nu 111t11r11•.•)· tons· of tlri,- ,·tu,pl<'r.
s1st 111 pro-a-eutton.
"'''' t 'tHlt· \ 11
En•r)· n,.,.,.,.,,;or, sl11:rilf. rn,nstnhl,•
or ·1&10. ,•Ii. 161'>:
o!,lwr. ntlk,·r. to l{l\"P i11for11111tl1111 of l•'or oth,•r rPf••rviulut iou ,,r 1wnal h1ws tu s1wlr uttor-,.,w,•s
,_,.,. s•·c11,·~·. who shnll
in .. t un- 111"~''""11r.,
pro,·, .. •din)Ci<, ,\<'.
0

8.

Pru,.,1·1·11ti111! ut turuvv: «lutil'" of.
~In~ appoint 1111 11 .. sist1111t, to lw paicl hy
t lu- prost•c'.utinl! nt!orrwy:
wh.-n lmproper for pros1·1'.uti111! altorn••J 1u11.I
11ssist1111t to 111'!. wl111t lo h+• 110111': 1111y

•\ds

lt

th,;,,..'

·

l. The nttomey-general shnll gh·e his opinion and advice in writ- .\rt .. IM'i'.!-:1. ch.
ing, whenever required to <lo so by the governor or other ottleers at ~- '.:h. 133.
the scat of governnwnt, or hy the hoard of public works.
:!. He shall appear as counsel for the state in all cases, in which .\1·t~.~lr.'.!·!i,«h.
the ~tutt~ is interested, depending in the supreme court of uppeuls, or ~l ;:h. t3.1.
in the circuit court of the county in which the seat of government
may be.
:t He shall annually, on or before the first day of November, de- .\,·.t,. tfli'J·:J. ch
liver to the governor a report of the State and condition of the sev~ih. 133.
eral causes, in which the State is a party, pending in the said courts.
-l. On the final determination of any cause in either of the eourtsc,«, U11'.!-:J. eh.
mentioned in the second section in ;hich the attorney-general up133.
peared for the State, the clerk thereof shall certify to the auditor the
fee of the attorney-general which was taxed in the bill of costs
against the defendant, and in case the said fee shall be paid into the
treasury, the auditor shall issue bis warrant on the treasury in favor
of the attorney-general for the amount thereof.
:>. It shall be the duty of the attorney-general of this State to up- .\l'ts 11177_,·ti.1D.
pear and protect the interests of the citizens of this State in ull 1~:!. ··Ir. rn:t
uctions, suits and other proceedings that are now, or shall hereafter
he, instituted in any court of record in this State, in favor of or
against any railroad company whose road passes through any portion
of the territory of this !'tate, whenever such action: suit or proceeding involves the right to assess or collect tuxes upon the property,
real or personal, of said railroad by any authority in this State authorized to levy taxes, whenever said attorney-general shall be
requested by said authority to <lo so: for which appearance und services he shall receive u reasonahle fee, to he paid by the authority·
requesting his appearance as aforesaid.
Hut no compensation shall
he paid him therefor by the State, except his salary and actual traveling expenses incurred.

~J

~J t, .

l'r,uu·c11ti119 ,,ttor,u,!J.
H. It shall he the duty of every prosecuting

attorney in this State, .\ds 1~.,·h.3.1.
to attend to the criminal business of the State in the county in which
3,\1~·~} n.
he is elected and qualified, and also to civil cases in which the State ~~i,·.'t·/~u.
is interested in such county, when required hy and under the direc- 33 w. v». 319.
tion of the auditor; and when be has information of the violation of

J:t

Digitized by

Google

790

., .. ,

...

ATTORSEY-G ENERAL-PROSECCTING

1~:!.

di.

13:t

rn w. v».

sr

I~:!.

,:.16.

eh.

ATTORNEYS.

[Cn. 120.

any penal law committed within his county. shall instjtute and prosecute all necessary and proper proceedings against the otfender, and
may in such case issue or cause to be issued a summons for any witness he may deem material.
lie shall also represent the county in
all suits and proceedings for and on behalf of or against the county,
or county court. overseers of the poor, or other public authorities of
the county, and carefully look after and give attention to the general
interests of the county.
And no allowance or compensation shall be
made for such services, except his annual salary and the allowance
provided for in chapter one hundred and thirty-eight of this code.
7. Any prosecuting attorney may, with the nssent of the circuit
court of his county entered of record, appoint one practicing attorney
to assist him in the discharge of his otflcial duties for and during bis
term of office, and such assistant shall take the same oath of office and
may perform the same duties as his principnl ; and he may be removed
from office as such assistant by the circuit court in which he was appointed, for any cause for which his principal might be so removed.
The compensation of such assistant shall be paid hy the principal
from the income of the office.
The prosecuting attorney and his assistant (if he have one) shall manage and control all prosecutions for
crimes and misdemeanors tried in the circuit court of any county for
which such prosecuting attorney was elected or appointed. Provided,
That in any case in which it would in the opinion of the court, he
improper for the prosecuting attorney and his said assistant (if he
have one) to act, such court shall nppoint some competent practicing
attorney to prosecute such case, and upon the performance of the
service for which he was appointed, said court shall certify that fact,
with its opinion of what would be a reasonable allowance to such attorney for the service rendered, to the county court of the county,
and such sum or a different sum when allowed by the county court
shall he paid out of the county treasury.
Pro,:idcd, further, That
nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the employment,
by any person, of competent attorneys to asslst in the prosecution of
any person charged with crime.
8. gvery assessor, sheriff, constable or other officer shall give information of the violation of any penal law to such attorney, who
shall forthwith institute and prosecute all necessary and proper proccedings in such case, whether in the name of the State, or of the
county. or of the county court, and rpny in such case issue or cause
to be issued a summons for any witness he may deem material, to
give evidence before the court or grand jury.

Digitized by

Google

CH. 121.]

791

NOTICES ANn lfoTTOS8.

CH APTER

CXXI.

( .\,. am1•11c.lt•d 111111 rc•-Pn11rt1•1l.

81•1• .\els I~.

NOTH~ES ANI> llOTIO!IIS.
SEr.
I. Soti1•1•, how to 1,., .. e rvvd, :.!••1wrull~.
:?. 011 whom s1•n·1•d h., puh)i1•11t1011.
:t \\' hvn notic· .. to tnkr- dvposi 1!011 11111., lw
,...rved 0111·uu11,.,·I.
4. .Juuj!Ult'lll t11k1•11 Oil notic•t• artc•r whnt
time.

I SY.t'.
fl. .Jml:,:11w111 h~

I

«h. i4.)

1-'or rnrnwr lu w
1111 t ho !'Ul1j1•1•t
or this l'lmptn.

r•irruit c:ourt 011 1•••rt11i11 s,•,• ( 'od«
\'a.
bonds, wh1•11.
I~.
c•h. 16,.
6. '· .I ud~llll'llb
upon 11111t1011 011 cont ract. F'or ot 1 ... r r,•r,·r·
7. I wh.-u.
1•11c1•,-, ,. .. ,. '"'cR Wlwn
r met j,.. joilll'I) Oil 11111tion. ti1111s.
dth,.r party 111:iy hu vr- 11 jury.

j,,,. ......

1. A notice, no particular mode of serving which is prescribed, i~t !~\~~.rn.
may be served by delivering a copy thereof in writing to the party ~!1:'i'/~=·
in person; or if he be not found, by delivering such copy at hist~~·.vn.4Sl3.l'l:ti.
usual place of abode, to his wife or to any other person found there e w. vu. -16 • .JK
I:! w, v«. rso.
who is a member of his family, and above the age of sixteen years, 13 w. \'11. 4-40.
. .
. f
.
f t lle purport O f SU.C I l copy to t h e person tor:::
16 w. v 11. 361.
ancl giving
In ormation O
\\:, \:u . .JO-I.
whom it is delivered ; or if neither his wife nor any such other per-~, \\ · '11• "39·
son be found there, and he be not found, by leaving such copy
posted at the front door of said place of abode.
Any sheriff or constable, thereto required, shall serve a notice within his county, and
make return of the mnnner and time of service ; for a failure so to
do he shall forfeit twenty dollars.
Such return, or a similar return
by any other person who verifies it hy affidavit, shall he evidence of
the manner and time of service.
2. Any such notice to a person not resldinzt:, in this :4tnte , may" he.\:ti\\'.
"'"' l!Q!~
• ..i .. ;-t.
\"11. 1\17.
served by the publication thereof once a week for four successive
weeks in a newspaper printed in this ~late.
H. Whenever any party on whom a notice to take a deposition .\d .. 188'.!.,·!1.i-t ..
should he served, is not a resident of this State, the service of such
notice on the counsel of such party shall have the like effect ns if it
were served upon the party, provided, the time between the service
of notice and taking the deposition, he sutncient for conveying by
ordinary course of mail, a letter from the place of service to the
place of residence of the party, and a reply from that place hack to
the place of service, and then for the counsel to attend at the pluce
of taking the deposition.
In all cases when notice is served on
counsel us aforesaid, the court, upon exception being taken, may
determine whether under nil the circumstances the notice has been
served in reasonable time, and admit or reject the deposition accord- 1c1.
l:i\\'.\"11.~.
inzlv,
m w. \'n. 3tH.
"u
.
:?:.!\\', ,·11. :n-1.
4. In any case wherein there may he judgment or decree for su. 581).
money on motion, such motion shall be after ten days· notice, unless ..\c·ts IHi:!-:i. 1'11.
some other time be specified in the section giving such motion.
::t!~. c•h. 7_._
5. In the case of any hond taken by an officer, or given hy aj ~~:: t~:
sheriff or constable, and returned to or filed in the office of the clerk~
\!~;_11:fi1:1.
of the county court of the county: the circuit court of the county:\\'. \'a . .._.:!.
may, on motion of any person. give judgment for so much monov ns:io w. \'11. 1:t
•
' ·
•'
I:! S. E. H. HtiH.
he is entitled, hy virtue of such bond, to recover by action.
fi. Any person entitled to recover money by action on any contract i~t/;~1
4·
may, on motion before nny con rt which would have jurisdiction in~ tri~\~k
an action, otherwise thun under the second section of the one hun-if.t· "11• ;ui,

t

~r:

~~t

:~:;~r

Digitized by

Google

792

.\,·ti; 188".!.,·h.74.
2 Cnll :t&I.
:i ('all fl:!I.
H'nll mo.
fl( 'n 11 4:J.'l.
4 \\ . \" 11. 'iOII.

. \,·ts 1AA2 . ..i1•74.

~~f.°i'.:!.

: ~;1
~ ~~1

[CR. 122.

AnoPTION oF CmLt>R~N.

~::i·. ~-.

dred and twenty-third chapter of this code, obtain judgment for such
money after thirty days' notice, which notice shall he returned to the
clerks' otlice of such court twenty days before the motion is heard.
A motion under this section, which is docketed under the first section
of chapter one hundred and thirty-one of this code, shall not he discontinued by reason of no order of continuance being entered in it
from one day to another, or from term to term.
7. A person entitled to obtain judgment for money on motion ma)",
as to any person liable for such money, move severally against each
or jointly against all, or jointly against any intermediate number,
and may also move severally against the personal representative of any
decedent who in his life time was liable alone, jointly, or with others;
and when notice of his motion is not served on all of those to whom
it is directed, judgment muy nevertheless be given against so marry
of those liable as shall appear to have been served with the notice.
Such motions may he made from time to time until there is judgment
against every person liable, or his personal representative.
Defence
to such motions may be made in the same manner and to the same
extent as in actions at law .
8. On a motion when an issue of fact is joined, and either party
desires it, or when in the opinion of the court it is proper, a jury shall
he impaneled.

For r11rnwr law
II" lo 1.'hllllJ:., or
111111w.,-1•1•('1111st.
IM.'tnrt. xi.~

CHA.PT.Im. CXXll.
( .\" 11 nwntlt•d

:i

1111 n- .. ·1111et,•1I. S.•.' .\els t~. 1·h. 1:~. l

o•· cuu.naxx.

a:

()},' CIIANCH~H A P1':llSON°S N.un:-AHOl'TION
1~60.
1. For St:<".
SEI".
I. How lllllllt' ma~ ht• 1•h1111i:,,,J.
I~ t.\doplion
of ,•hildr1•11.

( 'OIJP \°11.

.-11. 161-1.

S

::,'.~~·r , .,~'.' "~:·.~~=
lions.

.\l't,, l!!i!'>.,•h.3:J.
1~2. <'11. 1:t.!.

.\ l'I"

1:i-.:.

1~·!.

,·t,.

I . ,. ~

1. Any person desiring a change of his own nnmo, or that of his
child or ward, may apply therefor to tho circuit court of the county
in which he resides; and thereupon such court in its discretion, may
order a change of the name, and thenceforth the new name shall he
in pince of the former.
AdoJ>lion of cl1ildrt·11.
2. lt shall he lawful for any person not married, or any husband.
with his wife's consent, or any wife. with her husband's consent, or
any husband and wife jointly, to petition the circuit court of the
county wherein he, she or they may reside, for permission to adopt
any minor child, and also to petition for a change of name of such
child: Prorid cd, That if such child be of the age of fourteen years.
or over, the written consent of such child to such adoption, duly
acknowlellged, must he obtained and presented with the petition, and
ulaon the written consent of the parent or parents, if living. and not
insane; if both parents should he dead or unknown, or insane, or
shall have ubandonvd the child sought to he adopted, then. unrl i11
such case the written consent, acknowledged as aforesaid, must be

Digitized

by.Google

Cu

122. J

793

At>oPTtONm' Cun,bREN.

obtained from the legal guardian of such child.
..:\ ml if there he no
legal guardian then such consent must be obtained from some discreet
and suitable person appointed by the court to be the next friend of
such child sought to be adopted.
3. Such petition shall specify the name, age and place of residence 1o1.
of the petitioner or petitioners, and of the child, and the name hy
which the child shall be known; whether such child he possessed of
any property, and the full description of the same, if any; whether
such child has either father or mother, or both living; in case he,
she or they are alive, then the name or names, and place of residence
of such father or mother must be given, unless prov~n to be unknown
to the petitioner or petitioners; the persons petitioning as aforesaid,
shall be at least fifteen years older than the child sought to he adopted,
and the petition shall he duly verifled according to law.
4. Upon the presentation of such petition to the court, the same Id.
shall he ordered filed with the clerk of said court, and the court shull
nppolut a day for the hearing of said petition and the examination
under oath of the parties in interest, not less than ten or more than
twenty <lays from the filing of the petition.
And the court may adjourn the hearing of said petition or the examination of the parties
in interest from time to time, as the nature of the case may require ;
and if it shall be necessary under the provisions of this act, that a
discreet and suitable person shall he appointed as the next friend to
the child sought to be adopted, then and in that case the court shall
order a notice of the petition and of the time and the place when uml
where the appointment of next friend will ht> made, to he published
in some newspaper of general circulation in the county where said
court is located, once a week for four successive weeks; and at the
time and place so named, and upon due proof of tho publication of
such notice, the court shall make such appointment, and shall thereupon assign u day for the hearing of said petition and the examination of the parties interested, not more than twenty days from the
time of appointing the next friend, and upon the day so appointed
the court shall proceed to a full hearing of the petition and examination of the parties in interest, nuder oath; and if the court, from the
testimony, shall be of the opinion that the facts stated in the petition
are true, and if uvon exuminution the court is satisfied that the petitioner or petitioners, is, or are of good moral character and of respectable standing in the community, and of ability to properly maintain and educate the child sought to he adopted, and that the best
interests of the child would he promoted by such ndoption, then and
in such a case, the court shall make a decree reciting the facts at
length and the name by which the child shall thereafter be known;
declaring and adjudging that from the date of such decree, the rights,
duties, privileges and relations theretofore existing between the child
and his or her parent or parents. shall he in all respects at a1.1 <>IHI,
excepting the right of inheritance: and that the rights, duties, privileges and relations between the child and his or her parent or parents

Digitized by

Google

794

It.I.

[Cu. 1~.2.

AnoPTJON OF CmLDRF.N.

by adoption, shall thenceforth in all respects he the same, including
the right of inheritance, as if the child had heen born to such adopted
parent or parents in lawful wedlock, except only as otherwise provided in this chapter. Petitions, decrees, testimony and proceedings
shall he recorded in a hook kept for that purpose, and the clerk shall
receive the same fees as for the recording of a deed and upon the entry of such decree of adoption, the parents of the child, if living.
shall be divested of all legal rights and obligations due from them to
the child, or from the child to them) and the child shall be free from
all legal obligations of obedience or otherwise to the parents, and the
adopting parent or parents of the child shall he invested with every
legal right in respect to obedience and maintenance on the part of
the child, as if said child had been horn to them in lawful wedlock;
and the child shall be invested with every legal right, privilege, obligation and relation in respect to education, maintenance, and the
rights of inheritance in the estate of such adopting parentor parents,
as if born to them in lawful wedlock: except that said child shall not
he capable of taking property expressly limited to the heirs of the
body of the adopting parent or parents, nor property coming from
the collateral kindred of such adopted parent or parents hy right of
inheritance: Pror:id(·d, That on the death of the adopting parent or
parents and the subsequent death of the child so adopted, without
issue, the property of such adopting deceased parent or parents, shall
descend to and be dlstributcd among the next of kindred of suid
parent or parents, and not to the next of kin of tho adopted child.
Pmri,hd ,,l,w: That if such adopting parent or parents shall have
other child or children, theirs hy birth, then, and in that case. the
adopted child shall share the inheritance with the child or children
horn to the adopting parent or parents, in which case ho, she, or
they, shall respectively inherit from and through each other as if nil
had heeu children of tho same parents horn in lawful wedlock.
a. A parent or guardian of a minor, when u minor is adopted under the provisions of this chapter, who bad no notice of the proceedings, may, at any time within a year, after receiving notice, ·apply
hy petition to the circuit court in which the petition mentioned in
tho second section wns filed, praying that the adoption nmy bo vacated.
The court applied to shall give notice of a hearing, and shall hear
the petitioner and all parties interested, and muy vacate or affirm the
adoption in its discretion.
Any party interested may appeal from
the decision of the said court in the matter) us in other cases of appeals in matters of probate.
If the person thus adopted. is ndopted
while a minor, ht> may within one year after becoming of nge. sign.
seal awl ucknowledgo before proper authority. in the county in which
the instrument of adoption wns filed. a dissent from such adoption.
~nch instrument of dissent shall he recorded in such county court
clerk's otllce, and upon the filing of the same the adoption shall h(•
void.

Digitized by

Google

CH. 123. J

795

WHERE SUIT rs To BE CmrnENCED.

CHAPTER VXXIII.

For ronuer

IILW

on tht• subject
or this chapter.
,..,,. Cm.It• VIL.
01-' TIU: COUSTY IS WHICH PROCEEOINOS ARE CO)OIENCEI>.
1!!60.ch.189. 1'"11r
rurthn r .... r ,. rS..:c.
s,w.
l'IICl'S,
i-1•1• ,. .. cl. I \ t
.
. it s l
it .
3. As to writ"' or 11wntla1111111. q110 icorrunto t ions
:!.
01w.11
1111><11 1 1 aw 111111 i;111" 111:'fJUI .'·
aud certioruri.
··

I

1,"
1. Any action at law or suit in equity, except where it is otherwise i~~s 187'.3-3. ch.
specially provided, may hereafter he brouzht in the circuit court of hi.
ch. Hr..
188".!. t•h TJ.
any county:
1RD1, ch. 54.
4 W. \'u. 296.
Pirxt-Whercin any of the defendants may reside, except that an 9 w. \'u. ia
,
l b
h . h
16 W. \'a. 44.'t
action of ejectment or un I aw f u I <1 etamer must le roug · t mt· e county
wherein the land sought to he recovered or some part thereof is; or
Suoud-If
a corporation be a defendant, wherein its principal of- :i:1 w. va. 136.
flee is, or wherein its mayor, president, or other chief officer resides,
or if its principal office be not in this State, and its mayor, president or other chief officer do not reside therein, wherein it does business ; or
Tl,frd-lf
it be to recover land, or subject it to a debt, wherein
such Inn .l or any part thereof may be; or
Frmrt/1-lf it be against R non-resident of this State, wherein he 18 w. ,·21. 1.
may be found, or may have estate or debts due him; or
Fiftl,-lf
the suit be brought to recover a loss under 'any policy of
insurance upon property insured, in the county wherein the property
insured was situated, and if it be to recover a loss under any policy
of insurance upon the life of a person, in the county wherein such
person bad a legal residence at the time when the right of action accrued; or
St'..rtl,-lf it he on behalf of the State, in the name of the attorney-general or otherwise, wherein the seat of government is; or
Sel'n1tlt-If a judge of u circuit he interested in the case which,
hut for such interest, would he proper for the jurisdiction of his court,
the action or suit may he brought in nny county in an adjoining circuit.
2. An action may be brought in any county wherein the cause of Acts IR'i'..?-3, cit.
action, or any part thereof arose, although none of the defendants :~. ch. rs.
may reside therein. ·
3. ,Jurisdiction of writs of n,,11,,/um11R. prohibition, quo irurranto and i~~s um-s. ch.
certiorur! (except such us mav he issued from the supreme court of 188'.?. ch. 73.
"
l!SW.\'a.:?13.
appeals, or u judge t hereof in vacation), shall be in the circuit court of
the county in which the record or proceeding is, to which the writ relates.
Any such writ may he awarded either by the circuit court or
(in vacation) by the judge thereof .
.,

•

L'

.

Digitized by

Google

196

[CH. 124.

PROCESS.

CHAPTJ.m CXXIV.
(.\s nrm-nded

nnd re .. •1111ct1•d.

S,·r Act1< IAA2, ch. 117.)

OF PROCESS ANH THE ORDER OF PCULICATION.
SRc.

toI

t

I

For former lnw
rOf process l?l'IH'rnlly.
on the !illhjl'ct, 3· l
of this chu pter, 4. Dutv of 00k.1!r ILfl!•r rul« 1J11y.
.•
l' HIP Ya 5. !'roe!'.~:- co11111wn1~t111l sutt .• \:c.
rro, For 6. S11111111011s or IIN('f' ]'arias snv••d In like
oth,:r
refPrt•n·
~
11111111wr11,; 11ot1c,·s.
ees,
Sti•·
sec· 1, I Wliat sufllcn-ut servk-e 011 corpornt iou.
'tit1us.
8. I
I

1~oo ,.j:.

Sv.c.
IJ. Wtrnt suflldPllt

°t

t-l'rvic,• on common cur-

rtr-r, other ths n corporut iou.
Ht·t.urui- of 11ihil a nd nrJn of publica-

110
l 1011·
14. \
Hi. ~ Ordn of publfeuf lon h,y ch-rk of court
If\. 1 ,or 1q.11w111,...
17. l 11~11own p11rty. or dr-Ioudnut not 1..-r,·1•d
with prurPss mny t11n·1· c11s1• r••·h••1u1J.

Of p-roc,•s.<t 9,·11,,-rally.
1. Until the supreme court of appeals shall alter the forms of
writs, the same may he as heretofore used, except so far as is otherwise provided.
9
A~l!'i ch.
l8'it,ch.43.
court , whether original , mesne or final , mavJ
IRS:!,
117.
..... Process from anv
J
~ ~'.~:)J~: be directed to the sheriff or any county, except that process against
2 l,•·\1th .~;.,·
a defendant (unless a railroad, canal, turnpike, telegraph, or insur4 1.1'1:,!h 3.'l,1.
o~ uratt.
w,.
ance companyJ be defendant) to answer in anv•1 action brought under
W Vu.,.,
8II w:W. ,·ll:\"11.i5ii.449, the second section of• chapter
one hundred and twenty-three of this
•
•
ti9-t
code, shall not he directed to an officer of any other county than that
la W. v», 177,
h
.
)
.
.
l
)
"'
11011..
.
w erem tic action is )roug it,
...'"'"ny process may 1 le execute d on or
~~ ~~:: ~-'.~: :k':i: before the rdturn day thereof. If it appear to be duly served and
:!:3 w. v«. iu
good in other respects, it shall be deemed valid, although not directed
to any officer, or if directed to an officer, though executed by any
other to whom it might lawfully have been directed.
Process to
commence suits, including writs of 1u:i,·,· focia.'(, m,111dm1111s, '1',,, irarrauto, crrt ioru ri, prohibition and the al iu« or other process, where
the original is returned not executed, may also he served by any
credible person; and the return of such person, verified by his nttldavit, shall be evidence of the manner and time of service.
Any
process shnll be returnable within nmety dnys after its date, to the
court on the first day of the term, or in the clerk· s otflce to the first
)lonclay in a month, or to some rule <lay, except as follows:
.A summons for a witness shall he returnable on whatever day his attendance is desired, and an order of nttachment may be returnable to the
next term of the court, although more than· ninety <lays from the
date of the order, and process awarded in court may be returnuble
us the court shall direct.
..
h.
~1. l f nt the return day of any process it he not. returned executed.
;\1•1,.. I~:?.
11,.
an
· al ia« or other proper process may he issued without waiting
I W. \'11. I.
(where the first process is returnable to a term) for the subsequent
process to he awarded at rules. And where, for want of n return of
the first process against. a defendant, any subsequent process is
issued, if the former was executed, the otllcer shall not execute the
latter, hut shall return the former if it is in his possession, und if be
has it not, shall return the latter with an endorsement of the exeeution of the former, and the proceedings thereupon shall be us if the
first had been duly returned.
Acts
117'

1882. ch.

Digitized by

Google

Ca. 124.]

797

PROCESS.

4. ].~very officer who attends a court shall, within five days after
the end of any rules, go to the clerk's otHce and receive all process,
orders and decrees to he executed by him and give receipts therefor.
For any failure so to do he shall forfeit fifty dollars.

1W8

188'.?.

ch.

Process crmwwnciny suit . etc.
5. The process to commence a suit, shall be a writ commanding Id.
11"1 Uratt. 1'18.
the officer to whom it is directed. to summon the defendant to s w, Va. 386.
answer the hill or action.
lt shall. be issued on the order of the
.
], b e :!3
ir w.
\'a.m.
P lai
ainti'ff or 1·
us attorney or agent, an d s h a 11 no t , a f ter 1it its issuer
w. vs.
M9.
00·
32
altered, nor any blank therein filled up, except by the clerk.
w, Va.
G. Any summons or scire facias against any person, including a f1~~!'. l882. ch.
summons for a witness, may he served as a notice is served underiGratt. 20'Z.
the first section of chapter one hundred and twenty-one of this code,
to which end the clerk issuing such process, unless otherwise
directed, shall deliver or transmit therewith as many copies thereof
as there arc persons named therein, on whom it is to be served. No
judgment by default on a scirr fucia« or summons shall be valid, if
it become final ·within thirty days after the service of such process.
1882• ch.
7. 1t shall be sufHcient to serve any process against or notice to a
corporation on its mayor, president or other chief officer, or any611I,1elJ.?1~h1~,
,P ~ 1 •..,, .....
person appointed pursuant to law to accept service of process for it,
1~~~:1.oo1.
or in his absence, from the county or municipal corporation, to the .1~ \\:, ,:u.. 623.
·
~• \\. \' a. 314.
otHcer of which the process ts directed, it shall be sufficient to serve
the notice or process, if the corporation to be served be a city, town
or village, on two members of the council; and if it be not a city,
town or village, on the secretary, cashier, or treasurer, and if there
he none such or he be absent, on a member of the board of trustees,
directors or visitors.
Tf there be not within the State any other person on whom there can he service as. aforesaid, service on a director,
agent (including in the case of a railroud company, a depot or station
agent in actual employment of the company) or other officer of tho
corporation against which the case is, shall be sufficient.
8. 1 t shall he suflicient service of any process on, or notice to a Act~ tM7. p. 44.
corporation which shall have been formed, or which may be here-:t~(t·ll~'{sr;.
after formed under, or which has accepted, or which may hereafter
accept, the provisions of chapter fifty-four of this code, and which,
within the time prescribed by the twenty-fourth section of said
chapter, shall fail to comply with the said chapter, if a copy of such
process or notice he delivered by a proper officer or person to any
person at or in charge of its principal office or place of business; or
such corporation may be proceeded against hy order of publication.
!l. In a case against any common carrier (other than a corporation) Ar.ts lift!. ch.
for any liability as such, it shall be sufficient to serve any process I Ii.
against or notice to the carrier, or any agent, or the driver, captainor conductor of any vehicle of such carrier, and to publish a copy of
the process or notice as an order is published under the twelfth section of this chapter.

tri'k'~~~:t8677.

,\t·

!~5:

Digitized by

Google

798

[CH. 124.

PROCESS.

Returns of nil,il_; and order of public11tion.
10. No judgment shall be rendered on a scire faci11•, or in any
O Muur. 407.
other case, on returns of nihi].
Act~t86'Z-:l.p.2t.
11. On affidavit that a defendant is not a resident of this State: or
~~~:v~:J~;\:*l. that diligence has been used by or on behalf of the plaintiff to ascer" w. VM.200.400. tain in what county he is, without effect; or that process, directed to
6 W. v«. :?5.
9 w. Vn. 13, 20, the officer of the countv in which he resides or is, has been twice de443,
~
10 w. v», tao. livered to such officer more than ten days before the return day, and
13
W. v IL. :.!&J. b
.
}
I d e f en d ant is
. a
.~"· \\'.,:11 . .:~z. een returne d wit. h out b'emg
executer l ; or tint
tie
.I w. \ IL. 3-1._
'
d
\
f
I
•
h
1•
:!'.! w. Va. rso, corporation, an
that no person can re ounc m t e county upon
~\\". vs, i.79. whom the process can be legally served, an order of publication may
:!i W. Va.7112.
·
•
•
:ti w, ,·a.110.738. be entered agnmst such defendant.
And •many suit• 111
equity,
where
I:! s. KR. i071. the bill states that the names of any persons interested in the subject
to be divided or disposed of are unknown, and makes such persons
defendants by the general description of parties unknown, on affidavit
of the fact that the said names are unknown, an order of publication
may be entered against such unknown parties. Any order under this
section may be entered either in court or at the rules.
In a proceeding by petition, there may he an order of publication in like manner
as in a suit in equity.
Act!' 1863. p, ai
12. Every order of publication shall state briefly the object of the
1~~-J.
suit, and require the defendants against whom it is entered, or the
i
unknown parties to appear within one month after the date of the first
~0
1\>~~~oo. publication thereof and do what is necessary
to protect their interests.
1~\/~:~:~It shall be published once a week for four successive weeks in some
t_'!7. newspaper published in the county in which the order is made or
3:i w. v«. 738. directed, if one is so published, unless the circuit court of such
county .otherwise order; and if no newspaper be published in tho
county, then in such other newspaper as the court muy prescribe: or
if none be so prescribed, as the clerk may direct.
lt shall be deemed
to have been duly published on the day of the fourth publication
thereof.
1 t shall also be posted at tho front door of the court house
of the county wherein the court is held, at least twenty days before
judgment or decree is rendered.
,~i~ /t'.9il~~0•1· 1 B. Wlwn such order shall have been so posted and published, if
~ ~~·'.'~!~·.i~.',;.o. the defendants against whom it is entered, or the unknown parties,
v». 111;. shall not appear at the next term of the court, after such publication
:i:J w. ,·11. ;3R. is completed,
the case may be tried or heard as to them.
Personal
service of a summons, .•wirr fru·i,, s , or notice may he mude on a nonresident defendant out of this :--tatl>, which service shall have the
same etft•ct. and no other, as an order of publication, duly- posted
and published ugninst him. In such case the return must be made>
under oath, and must show tho time und place of such service, anti
that the defendant so served is a non-resident. of this :--tate. l 'pou
. ... any trial or hearing under this section, such judgment, decree or
a\f'IS IROI>. p .•. l,
txrn, ,·ti. 1w.
order shall he entered as may appear just,
llr.l. <'11. ltl7.
~
1~·1.,·ti.11-:.
14. Any unknown party or other defendant, who was not S<'n·NJ
io i.,·11.d• !'>Ir..
• h process .in tu~
I . State,
~
. h e ease bef
l
:Hir1111.1~.
wit
ant l did
1
not appear mt
I.A: ore t re
:<~ratt ..

soe.

~:Ia~t~·_'\
i~'r~i.·:r ~:

!

,~_r,i:

gt~::_-

~-t.

Digitized by

Google

CH. 124.]

799

PROCESS.

s~::n: ~:

date of such judgment, decree or order, or the representative of such, ~
may, within five years from that date, if he be not served with a ft{.~"'
copy of such judgment, decree or order, more than one year before;!-">,,:,
•
•
,
,
· :,.S \\ •
the end of said five years, and if he was so served, then within one year
from the time of such service, file his petition to ha ve the proceedings re-heard in the manner and form provided by section twentyfive of chapter one hundred and six of this code, and not otherwise;
and all the provisions of that section arc hereby made applicable to
proceedings under this section.
Ordn· of p11U/cafio11

\'IL. t~.

,;.l.
\

I&.

579.

710.

l,!J clrrlc of court of 011pn1/ .s , a11tl1ori::f'tl.

15. When, by the return of any officer of process issued to answer i~~ ~i~i 11;: 88.
any appeal or .rnp,·r.'it'dms now pending or which may be hereafter 1883. ch. -tu.
pending i11 the supreme court of appeals in this State, or when, from
affidavits flied with the clerk of the said court, it shall appear that
the uppellee or defendant in any such appeal or ,rnJ1tT.~rd,·as is a nonresident of this State, or that the names of places of residence of
such parties are unknown, so that process can not he served upon
them, where such service may he necessary, it shall be lawful for the
clerk of said court, upon application, to take and issue, on the first
)londay in any month, an order of publication against such absent
or unknown parties, requiring them to appear on a certain day, to be
designated in said order, then and there to answer the said appeal or
sn persrdea« and to have a re-hearing of the whole mutter therein contained.
1882. ch.
16. Such order of publication shall he entered by the clerk in a
suitable book kept by him for the purpose and signed by him, and a
certified copy of such order shall be inserted once a week for four
successive weeks in some newspaper to be named therein, and a copy
of said order shall he posted at the front door of the building in
which said court is held in the grand division in which the cause is
to be heard; and when it shall appear that said order of publication
has been duly published and posted as aforesaid, the court may proceed to hear and decide such cause in the same manner as if the said
parties had been personally served with process:
Procided, hrnoruer,
That the order of publication shall have been executed, as aforesaid,
at least thirty <lays before the day on which any such cause may be
called for hearing.
17. Any unknown party or other defendant who was not served Act .. isea p, 88.
. t l11s
. c,... ta t e, am I did
. b
h ave 188'..!, ch. 117.
wiitl. 1 process m
1 not appear 111 t e cause, may
the same re-heard, and nny injustice in the proceedings corrected
within the time prescribed by the fourteenth section of this chapter.

s:

Digitized by

Google

800

[CH. 125.

RULES AND PLEADINGS.

CHAPTim CXXV.
( As 1111w11dl•d 1111d re-enacted.
RULES

ASD

Ssc,
1 .• Generul provisions as to rules.
2 '
3 }
to
Rull• docket.
O.
t\ }
IA> When suit will abate or bi' dismissed.
8.
9
to rot tl11.• dvclurut iou.
It.)
12 . Arm-ndvd
1!i•cl11ratio1l or hill: ,-upph•·
nu-ntut hill 1111d hill of rvvivor.
13. Guard Inn uii titcn« of infant or in,-1111l·
ddPnclaut.
14 ~
to lluttn
in abut .. ment,
Ill.

t

I

rot(', !..l Gl'IIPtlll rult·". II>' to J>lt•np; 1111d ,-ul,spFor rormer l11w2!'1. \ •1111•11t pleudinz».
on t h« ,rnhjt•cl~
/
of this cha ptor, to
Parttculars us t.o pk-us u nd demurrer».

r860 Cic

f

;:~· ~For' ottw~ r:,r:to ta,•11..rul ruh-s a,- to immu tvrm l
1•rl'11c.. s.see sec- 34.
tions,

f

tiOIJ!,.
• \ct.,. 18it,ch.33.
71.

I88:?. ch.

Acti- l88!!,ch.rt.

allPit:L·

S•'l' Ads

t&l'J. ch. 71. l

PLEAUI!\108.
Si,:c.

ss.

I c.;,•ru•rHI ruJ.,,. us to pleadincs und pro31\. i et•Pdini,:s in •'<111ily.
3'i. Form of bill.
38 (
to ()f 011' Vl'rif\t:111.ion of ph•udilll!'S.
41.
-12. Forrn of vnillc1ltlon of ph•11di11i,:s.
-ta. .Judgnwut or 11'•cr1•1• ll\' eonfvssiou.
4-l, 1 Judi:nwnt
or decree ii1 the oftle~· hv dr-4fl. i fnult.
•
4'\., How odlcl' judjnnont
set 11,.;ide or l,t,-ti.
1'.01111' fluul: it,- etfl•ct.
.J8., Pr•.>eP1•cli11it" hv a ttaehuu-nt
utu-r hill
·19. ( taken for corif,•sr-l•<i
f,o, 1 W h1·11 suit
in "ll uity may b,.. ,-,·t fur
al. ( lw1rrini,:.
52. Wh,,re a ca,-1• i,- ready only ns tu part of
the ,1,,r .. uduuts,

r

r~to1 I-G1·1wr:1 I provisious.

nil.\
tlO.

f1
1 ~-

Control 11! n court o\'1•r pr•lC•·1·di11;.:s in
the otlicv.
ill uctlon» on polieh·,-or

I Pl1•11di11g-,;, ,\:,· ..

f

iusurn nce.

(h:ueral procisiou« us it> rule».
1. In the clerk's office of every circuit court, except where a different provision is made by law, rules shall be held on the first )Ionday of every month, except when a term of the circuit court happens
to commence on the first Monday in a month, or either of the two
following days, or on the preceding Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday,
Friday or Saturday, the rules which otherwise would have been held
for the said month on the first )lonrlay, shall be held on the last
Monday in the uext preceding month. The mies may continue three
days; but when in any case such continuance would interfere with
the terms of the court for which the rules are held, they shall not
continue in such case beyond the day preceding the commencement
of the term of such court.
2. Where rules are held on the last Monday in ,, month, as provided in the preceding section, they shall be entered in the rule docket
and endorsed on the declaration or hill as if taken un the first )londay
in the month to which they relate.
R1tfr docket,

Id.

Jd,

l<I.

9 w.

v«. 00.

Act11 1882.ch.it.
6 Rund. 675.
2 Rob. -tS."i.

:~'k':~.~oo.

3. There shall be a docket of the cases ut rules, wherein the rules
shall he entered; and the books in which rules and orders arc entered,
in chancery cases, shall be separate from those in which rules and
orders are entered in other cases.
-l. When there is no clerk to take a rule in a case, it shall stand
continued until the next rule duy after there is a clerk.
5. The rules may be to declare, plead, reply, rejoin or for other
proceedings; they shall be given from month to month.
lJT/1n1 the sui! will ulutt« 11r be di.'l111i1txnl.
6. .\ defendant. may appear at the rule day at which the process
against him is returnable: or if it lw returnable in term, st the first

Digitized by

Google

CH. 125.J

801

RULES A.SD PLEA.DINOS.

rule day after the return <lay, and if the declaration or bill be not
then filed, may give a rule for the plaintiff' to file the same.
If the
plaintiff fail to do this at the succeeding rule day, or shall, ut any
time after the defendant's appearance, fail to prosecute his suit, be
shall be non-suited, and pay to the defendant, besides his cost, five
dollars.
7. If three months elapse after the process is returned executed .,ctl'i 188:!.eh,11.
as to any one or more of the defendants, without the declaration or
bill being filed, the clerk shall enter the suit dismissed, although none
of the defendants may have appeared.
8. When a summons to answer an action or bill, is against a de- :1\\'l\i<h. 9.
fondant whom the otflcer (receiving it) knows not to reside in bis~.t· Va. 13· 17•
county, or to reside out of the State, he shall, unless he find him in:!'.! w. Vu. ::t?9.
his county on or before the return day, return him a non-resident;
whereupon, if the court from which such process issued have jurisdiction of the cuse only on the ground of such defendant's residence
in such county, the action or suit shall a hate as to him; and if he he
returned a non-resident of the State, and the court have jurisdiction
of the case only on the ground that the cause of action arose in the
county, the action or suit shall abate as to him.
Of f/,l' declaration,
Acti,1 !~2.ch.71.
9. No action shall abnte for want of form, where the declaration~ \t ~·'~. ~.i
sets forth sufficient matter of substance for the court to proceed upon~~~~: t~·. i~!-_
the merits of the case.
34 w. Va.~.!.
10. In actions of trespass, general a verrnents that the defendant .\cts 188:!,ch.71.
committed other wrongs, and that the acts charged were done with
force and arms against the peace, may be omitted; and the plaintiff
may prove all that he could have done if such averments had been
inserted in the declaration.
11. In every action of assumpait the plaintiff shall file with his .\Cot" tAA-2.et,.11.
.
.
diistiuct
.
I y t h e severn 1 uerus
·,,.
-188.
<l ec l aration,
an account stating
o f hiis ..13Ruud.
1,,,,1:11 m.
.
l
.
t
,
I.
I
d
·1
l'
h
d
I
.
d
"f
h
f
·1
121·•·•~h3is.
c I aim, un ess tt oe p am y escrt >et m t e ee aration, an 1
e ai H urntt. 1. M7.
. 312w.w.vv«.
a. !,IJl.
to d o so, h e s h a 11 not l >e pertm . t teel to prove any 1. te m not s tated
• in
5:!6.
such account) on the trial of the case.
\!:~.~.

inr.:

Amended declaratio»

or lJi!l-twpplemrntal

{,ill and !>ill of rccioor,

12. The plaintiff may of right amend his declaration or hill at3'~~~ \~·:·71.
any time before the appearance of the defendant, or ufter such np- ~
1•1
pearance if substantial justice will be promoted therehy.
But if ft va. r». 217.
such amendment be made after the uppeurance of the defendant, theg
court may impose such terms upon the plaintiff as to a continuanceiitiso;~.181,
of the cause, and the payment of the costs of such continuance, as ~f7~~~·a. 175,
it may deem just.
The plaintiff may also at any time before or af- ~~\'. Va. 626,
ter the appearance of the defendant, in the vacation of the court{!, w: VI\. 2:11,
wherein the suit is pending, file in the clerk's office, with the other ta ·l~\.a. 444,
papers in the cause, nn amended declaration or bill, supplemental
Va. ·108.
1.·11
.
·
i'.?4.
ul , or bill
1
o f revivor
; w h ereupon t I ie c I er k s I ia 11 issue
a summons ll:!2.
ti w.
Ya. 2-i2:
.
1 f
. .
hirm to pea
1 d to, or nnswer sue h eo
19 W. Va. :.'7...
against
t he ue
en dant, requiring
w. vu. 38".!.

~r ,~ ~f:tl6.

~h\~~~J.~.

tf"w.

Digitized by

Google

802
21 W. Va.2::13.
:?2 W. Ya. lf>9.
9-& W. v a. 206.
es W. Va. 000.
26 W. Ya. 225.
ti W. \'a. 4:?".!.

~.w.

[Ca. 125.

Rutl'!8 AND PLEADINGS.

Vil.

amended declaration or bill.
But if the court shall be of opinion
that the same was improperly filed, it shall dismiss such declaration
or bill at the costs of the plaintiff.

sse.

G,mrdi,111 ad liten!

lo

i11fa11t

11r ;,,.~,,,,,,

,ltff'lul1111/.

1 ;t The proceedings in n suit, wherein an infant or insane person
is
a
party, shall not be stayed because of such infancy or insanity,
342.
: ~~~~~: ~~but the court in which the suit is pending, or the clerk thereof at
~ :rr,!\l!: ~: rules, may appoint a guardian ad lit,·m to any infant or insane de~9,~~.",!!·. ~~- fendant, whether such defendant shall have been served with process
1::.
or not, and after such appointment 110 process need he served on
such infant or insane person.
The court ma,y compel the person so
:11 w.vs. ea appointed to net, or appoint another in bis stead ; hut the person so
appointed shall not he liuhlo forcosts, and shall he allowed his reasonable charges, which the party on whose motion he was appointed,
shall pay.
Jf,,tfrr o( ,tl,ot,·111r·11t.
Act" 1~.!.ch.11.

~\i!!~L29.

: ~r \:~-.

~ ~r: r:: ~:

14. Xo plea in abatement for a misnomer shall he allowed in any
action; but in a case wherein, hut for this section, a misnomer would
31
w. Va. 142· have been pleadnble in abatement, the declaration and summons may,
on the motion of either party, and on the affidavit of the right name,
3\ft'.l~,-'.~,t· be amended by inserting the same therein.
~~\~~~~·.m:
15. In other cases, the defendant on whom the process summon..
94.
ing
him ·to answer, appears to have been served, shall not take ad.
3 1'.\1•1
,1• 1l1I
111!-:!70.
u
I,l·h.:h 584.
vantaze
of anv~ defect in the writ or return, or anv.; variance in the
2 Gr1t1t. 3.'",.t.
~
rn Grau. 6:!. writ from the declaration, unless the same be pleaded in abatement.
:!W.Vu.4i7.83.
t
d im everv such case t h e court may permit. t h c p 1 ainti
· 'tf to amenc.I
aw. v«. AA:!. An
6 w. v II. -k\. -48. h
.
••
I
.
h
.
l
. h
1:? w. vu. 750. t e writ or r ec aration so as to correct t e variance, ane permit t e
:?2 W. Vu. fi3i. return to he amen d en,
I upon
· sue b terms as to it· s h a II seem [ust,
.
_.\~:'1~1l':ft~h.71.
16. Where the declaration or bill shows on its face proper matter
t ~~~~t :..~· for the jurisdiction of the court, no exception for the want of such
1h\86.
jurisdiction shall be allowed, unless it be taken by plea in abatement;
1tt~,~~/~t'1~. and the plea shall not be received after the defendant has pleaded in
rn ~i~:~t 11:.· bar, or answered to the declaration or hill, after a rule to plead, or a
i
conditional judgment or dee ree 11 t-: t
JO w. Ya. OOi.
17. No plea in abatement, for the non-joinder of any person as a
:~~~!' ~~'skh.11. co-defendant, shall be allowed in any action, unless it be stated in
; w. ,i:~. 4:?i. the pica that such person is a resident of the State, and unless the
place ot residence of such person be stated with convenient certainty
in an affidavit verifying the plea.
A,., .. l88".!.•·h.il.
18. If a defendant plead in abatement that any other person ought
Wt to be jointly sued.and at the trial of an issue joined on such plea, it
~~\'. Va. :.'97. appear that the action could not, hy ronson ot chapter ninety-eight.
or chapter one hundred and four of this code, be maintained against
such other persons, or any of them, such issue shall he found against
the defendant so pleading.
\~~·~!'.·;1. 19. After such plea in abatement, the plaintiff, without proceedAct11 lfl82.ch.71.

: ~rt-':;. r-:t

l

io'i:.i.f!

~t \~;~~~·

~ ~:~1il:

t~?

!:? \\'. \'n. :.!97. --

:pl.

us

w.

\'11.-I00, .. 13:

eo w.

\'11.-161,571:

!ll

w.

vs.su.

23W. \'a."'i'S:

Digitized by

~W.

\'a. 40&.7a.

Google

CH. 125.]

803

Rut,J:S AND PLEADINGS.

ing to trial upon an issue thereon, may amend his decluration, and
make the persons named in such plea as joint contractors, defendants
in the case with the original defendants, and cause process to he
served upon the new defendunts ; and, if it appear hy the subsequent
pleadings in the action, or at the trial thereof, that all of the originu.l
defendants are liable, but that one or more of the other persons named
in such plea are not liable, the plaintiff' shall be entitled to judgment,
or to verdict and judgment, as the case may he, against the defendants who appear liable; and such as are not liable shall ha Ye judgment, and recover costs as against the plaintiff, who shall be allowed
the same us costs against the defendants who so pleaded.
0,·11,·rol rult-« u» ffl plnt,'l and sttf,.,w,,,u·11t pl,·,1d1'.119.".
The defendnnt in any action or suit may plead as many several ,i";t
matters, whether of law or fact, as
he shall think necessurv,
except 6t '.\tunr.
1-lk.
'
•.
'.\I 1111r. ttt:!.
that if lu- plead the plea of uon Nd fuct uni he shull not, without leave a Ru ml. !i6. -148.
•
4 I.Pil?h 4()",!,
of the court, be permitted to plead any other plea inoonslstent there-~ L'.·ii.;h a:~ .
1 f
. h . T o any specia
. l P I ea, p l en d eri I)Y a he
· "ff may :.4 ,w.
'' ·',·u.:!76.4'.l_1,
n.:!8.'l.4!16.
wit
en d ant, t h e P l amt,
plead as many special replications as he may deem necessary."
,·11. :m.
21. The defendant may plead in abatement and in bar at the same.\•·•.~ 1~:!.,·h.71.
time, but the issue on the plea in abatement shall be first tried. And ~1'k\!;1~f1.
if such issue be found against the defendant, he may, nevertheless, at w. v«. H.
make any other defence he may have to the action.
22. In a plea, replication, or subsequent pleading, intended to .\ct" t88:!.ch.7t.
ht• pleaded in bar, or in the maintenance of the action, it shall not
be necessary to use any allegation of octfrmnu uo» or preclud] 1w11.
or to the like effect, or any prayer of judgment,
t:3. No party shall be prejudiced hy omitting a protestation in any Id.
pleading.
:!4. All special traverses, or traverses with an inducement of Id.
atllrmative matter, shall conclude to the country. Hut this regulation shall not preclude the opposite party from pleading over to the
inducement when the traverse is immaterial.
:!5. When the plaintiff takes issue on the defendant's pleading, or
._..$ a:lX.
traverses the same, or demurs, so that the defendant is not let in tu
allege any new matter, the plaintiff may proceed as if there were u
simil lter or [oinder in demurrer.
Purt iculur« 11s to Jdnt,,; a11,l denutrnr«.
2H. No formal defence shall be required in :1 plea; it may com- Ac,,. 1~2.d1.71
mence as follows:
'1The defendant says that."
:n. 1t shall not be necessary to state in a second or other plea, that Id.
it is pleaded by leave of the court, or according to the form of the
statute, or to that etf ect.
:!8. The form of a demurrer or joinder in demurrer shall be:
The M.
. tiff)
· no t 6 w · v a· :i11>.
cl e f en d an t ( or p l am
1
says t h a.t th e rI ec l ara ti1011 ( or p l ea, e te.,) is
(or is) sufficient in law."

_r~~-.r,1J.I.

:rn.

~:.t

thuwr

•1~ w. \'K. ~:
13 w. v». li'i8: li'l w. v». Miil: lij w. v«. r,='>:"): I!<\\'. \'n :t\l\: ~:I\\'. v». l·I.
'.'i'oT&-.\s t., ph-u of /l,/( .Iudu-utu, ,,.,. 1ll W. \';1. ~7>0: 11 W. v«. lllH; I~\\'. v«. !!U: eo w.
,·a. Ml:~~ W. v«. 474: ~ W. v«. 6!l'J::..'6 w. vu. fi83,6\}'.!, 741: :.18 w. \'a. 711',:29 W. Va. iM:a.t
W. \"u.6d6:

~W.

Vn.15:!,464,5o3,tl0i'.

Digitized by

Google

804-

[CH. 125.

RULES AND PLEADINGS.

.\Cl!' lkl'.i'.!,eh.71.
~II.,\:'.\!.~.

29. On a demurrer (unless it be to a plea in abatement) the court
shall not regard any defect or imperfection in the declaration or
71,,·h.d• irs. ~"- pleadings, whether it has heretofore been deemed mispleading or mt \"11. ('a,.. ;i(JI.
~ <~ratt. .1:~J.
sufficient pleading or not, unless there he omitted something so es' l,ratt. .~l.
:! Gra t t., 89. 183. sential to the action or defence that judgment according to law and
IHII.
tt!:!. :roo.
· lit o f t h e cause can not be given.
·
,r d emurrer s h a 11 b e
to c.rnu.
t h e very ng
.1.,0
14 (iratt. :i:?-4.
•
l
b
f
h
·
·
·
l
1a <irnu. fl(JL sustatnec ecnuse o t e ounsssion in any p ca dimg o f t h e won l s,
v«. :!Hl. "t hiis h e ts
. rea d y to veriif y, ''· or "t hiis h e is
. read y to venif y l>y t he
:!I\\'.
w. ,·a.-t77.24:!.
ir\\.. ,·a.3:I0.3tW. record," or "as appears by the record ;" but the opposite party may
t',·."i~tJ:!. be excused from replying, demurring or otherwise answering to any
10 \\ · \_1'}R:,i:«J· pleading which ouzht to have, but has not such words therein until
II\\.\
.1.,J.l,-18.
i:,
o
.
•
,
~\\'.
,.11•
36:t. they he inserted.
If nothing be alleged by the dcmurrant in support
~fl~\:.'/i.;~: of his demurrer, the court, if it overrule the same, shall state that
11a. fact in the order; and if final judgment be obtained in the cause by
:!11 w. Va. 5:!".!. the party whose plending is demurred to the same shall not be re76.'l.
~
•
,
'
versed
by reason of any defect in the pleading so demurred to.*
.\cts IH)o('..! • ..J-1.71.
fl '.\Iunr. :Ml.
~111. A plaintitf in equity may have any plea or demurrer set down
I (iru 11. llltl.
11 w. v«. r»7.
to be argued. lf the same be overruled, no other plea or demurrer
s w.va.rn.
· l but t l iere s I in ll he a rueI upon t l re d cow.
v«. a,.ero. s l ia ll afterwar d s he receiveu,
tu
W.
Va.
~.
f
l
I
l
·11
6.'l:J.
enr ant to answer t ie )1 ; aml 1·r l ie f a1·1 to appear anu,1 answer t h e
11 w. Va. :m. bi ll
· t lie or d er, t lie P l am
· tirt
:~.
1 on t lie t I ay speciif1ctI in
1 s h a 11 I>e en tltl
I e d. to
ift· Va. :m, a decree against him for the relief prnyed for therein. t
:u. A plaintiff in equity may
issue upon a plea, and have
eo w. Va. 569· such issue tried by a jury .

~ t:~~l: =:.·

: ~r·.

g,~~~fi0\~i'>.

!ta~\~/f"?/">1.

take

. \,·ts IAA'.!.eh.71.
IC·lll:18"..!.

U('nt•rul rul~ us to inunutcriu! ,,llegatiuus.

l~.(·.h.71
11 '.\lunr. Ito.
tl Rant!. IUI.

to set forth the place in which any contract was made, or act done,

32. It shall not be necessary in any declaration or other pleading

.\<'!.,.;

unless when, from the nature of the case, the place is material or
tru versable, and then the allegation may be as to a deed, note or
other writing hearing date at any place, that it was made at such
place, or as to any other act, according to the fact, without averring
or suggesting thut it was at or in the county in which the action is
brought, unless it was in fact therein .
• \,'.!,.; l~:!.1'11.i'I.
•.)•_) It s l m 11 not l ie necessary .m any acti10n t o aver th nt th e cause
I wash. 81.
aa.
of action arose or that the mutter is within the jurisdiction of the
7i :;~:~::: ~'·
court, or to make profert of any deed, letters testamentary, or com15 w. Vu. -iw. mission of administration; but a defendant may have oyer in like
manner as tf profert were made .
. \ets l!'.18:.!,d1.11.
34. .-\ll allegations which are not traversable, and which the party
could not he required to prove, may be omitted, unless when they

~ t:'.:~r~:i.

•JtiW. v». t!Y.l.a.'i.',; 11'1\\', \"11.f>tt!.64~:
W. v«. 32: ~ w. v a. lf-.8.

~I W. Va.368:

:!:!W. \"11.ltl:

26W. Vn.6W.:t.O::!i

us w. \"n.-17\1.R'.!9: HIW. v». ltlt4.4·4'!.,l\l7,.tl'.!."l.i91; 17\\'. \"11. 474.001: I8W. \'a. -Hi.~:
!.!II\\'. \'a.:m.:!tlo,:J.'il:
21 W. \"11.:iOl.attl.tlOl.ll<i6; ~W. \"n . .t(~.4:!'.!: :.14 W. \'11.:J>. }llj,741:
:.!:,
\'t1. -t!'l. I~. 133. I~. 5'!",: :!tl W. v». :trn. 4S..'i: et W. v». :Jlj:!; es w.v«, 100. 331S. M4. 5.Cl

w.

rro,

'.'\on;--.\s to
v«, :il\l: 17 w.
\"a. !x,I: :..'ti\\'.
,·a.;.(}!; 3:1 \\'.

,l,·11111rr,·r,, to P\"i•l•·•w•·. ,.,.,. to W. v«. ;107. altl. ;Jl',(I; ti W. \"11 IYK.. ~: 16 W
,·a. I: 114 \\'. ,·a. :!71. :!J\I. a'i;I: ~'11 \\'. \'a. Ill. t:.!I. t.'.!: ~I w. ""· a."41; 24 W
\"a. 1116. :«,,. fa"l: ~'7 \\'. \"11. 16; ~"J \\'. \"a.~; 30 \\'. \'n. 27. ~
488: :tJW.
,·u. au. 267. ,It(.",,

Digitized by

Google

UH. 125.J

805

RULES AND PLEADINGS.

are required for the right understanding of allegations that are
material.
Gnwral rules «« to ple,,di1tglf and 1n·11c1·,,di11gs in l'']ttlf!J.
35. The defendant in a suit in equity may, in his answer, allege 111.
any new matter constituting n claim for utflrmutive relief in such suit~ \!:tr~443·
against the plaintiff or any defendant therein, in the same manner:~~\· \.i:;.=~~~and with like effect as if the snme had been alleged in a cross-bill ~!t · Vu. :!ti-I.
filed by him therein; and in such case, if the plaintiff or defendant :~ \~~:. ''{\,."':~.
against whom such relief is clnirned, desire to controvert the relief 211118.W.:!IJI.v», ~t
·~··
prayed for in the answer, be shall file a special reply in writing, deny-!.!_.l w:
"'!·
~;
_
\\. \ u, :!4,.
ing such allegations of the said answer as he does not admit to bc:!i-t-~79./fll!·
,
u
. :.:i \\ . \ a.. 'JIH.
true, and stating any facts constituting a defence thereto. out 10 '.!R w.
113.
. hirs answer upon w hireh h e re- 3.1
:iO W. v». 61~.
case a d e f encl ant a 11 egc new mutter in
w. v». ooo.
lies for and prays afftrmntive relief, such defendant shall not file a~:~. E H. 1000.
cross-hill in the same cause except upon condition of striking from
his answer, all such matter and prayer for ntflrmutivc relief as are Act" IMH'..?.d1.il.
contained in such cross-bill.
:
r:~:::~:,:!.
:rn. Every material allegation of the bill not controverted by an ·\'a.I u.39o.
answer. and every material allegation of new matter in the answer70'~~·-.\\/:lt
constituting a claim for nfflrmative relief," not controverted by a g
special reply in writing, shall for the purposes of the suit, be taken~~\ .. ,.11_ 108_ .
as true, and no proof thereof shall be required."
68."i.
Ii W. v«. :!ii\.

~r

,·a

~r:

!i~~-

~r):::~%t

:17. The plaintiff's bill

Form ·~( uu.
may he in form or in substance as fol-

1': ~h\:\J~,~.\er~ lAA:l.eh.71.

lows:
~t~/11• Ill.
'1The
hill of complaint of A-H-(state the names of all the so w · v». 619·
plaintiffs) against (1-D-(state the names of all the defendants
if known, and if not, designate them as the 'unknown parties;' or
-unknown heirs;' etc., as the case may he) filed in the circuit court
of -county.
The plaintitt' complains and says that (here state all
the facts constituting a claim to relief).
The said plaintiff thcrcfore e w. \n. ~t~.
. 1 ar re I. re f r l estrer
. l ).
11 e a 1 so us k s :ita" w.· v». H4.
16.
prnys thua t (h ere 'state t l io pnrticu
such other and general relief as the court may sec fit to grnnt.
A-B--,
Plaiutijf'."
Every person designated in the caption of such hill as a defendant 18 w. v«. UH.
shall be a defendant therein, without a prayer that he he mude
such and shall be required to answer the hill in the same manner and
to the same extent as if he were therein called upon to do so.

'a. ;},

Of flu· ccrificatio« of pfrudi119.".
:-l8. If the plaintiff desire the defendant to answer the bill on oath .\<·ts 1~.di.it.
he must verify his hill by aftldavit, and if the hill he so verified, the =:f\'\·/\1~~-c.1.
defendant must in like manner verify his answer.
But if the bill he 68.'l.
not verified, the defendant need not verify his answer. and if he does
so it shall not be entitled to nny more weight in the cause than if it
*S.•1'. X. Y. ( 'rnlt• of Pr0<·.. ,I II n-, p. 3:J7. sp,•f ion 11\K. 141 ii 1•,I i lion: Fr\' \'1'. 1!1• 1111Ptt. I C 'l){lt• R.
:S. S. ~45: :, Silllfor,I r,t: :Sf'Wlllllll
rs. Otto. I Saufnrcl ~:
llarlow' vs, Hu mi ltou. I\ Howurd
~ia: Snn,111 v"·. St. ,John. :it\ Bnrhn11r tl:!8: :\laynr of.\ lbuuv vs. Cu11lilf, ~ Comstock 171; Liv111g;1tou vs, :\ltlh•r, 4 Sl'ld1•11 ~;
1)1111ou vs. Jh11111, If>~. Y. H•!p. 498.

Digitized by

Google

806

RtJl,ES

[CH. 125.

AND PI,EADISOS.

had not been verified.
In case the defendant verify his answer, alleging new matter constituting a claim for affirmative relief, the plaintiff must verify his special reply thereto. A general replication to
an answer claiming afflrmntive relief shall not npply to so much of
said answer as states facts constituting a claim to such relief.
Acts IBfl:!.ch.71.
:1n. No plea in abatement or plea of 111111 rst fuctum. shall be recelved unless it be verified by aftldavit."
t~·irn11.1~:!. -1:!"..!.
40. Where a declaration or other pleading alleges that any person
!N{'\·~'.\!f.!· made, endorsed, assigned or accepted any writing, no proof of the
handwriting of such person shall be required, unless the fact be denied by an ntlldavit with the plea which puts it in issue .
. \,·ts IRlt..!.,·h.il.
41. Where plaintiffs or defendants sue or tire sued as partners,
~ ~1r~t';[: f:l
and their names are set forth in the declaration or hill, or where
~~~\'. v». :.'\r.. a plaintiff or defeudant sues or is sued as a corporation, it shall not
:~ \V V:'i. ~-. be necessary to prove the fact of such partnership or the existence
of such corporation, unless the pleading which puts the matter in
!¥;;: issue be verified, or there he an affidavit filed therewith denying such
partnership or the existence of such corporation. A plea putting
in issue the existence of a corporation, shall be sufficient if it be in
form or effect as follows:
"And the said defendant for plea says, that the plaintiff (or defendant, as the case may he) is not a corporation, as in the plaintiff's declaration is alleged ...

1i r ~::~: [~:

~ ~r· ~::~:

Form of r,·r,'ficflltolt
.\•·•." l~.!._l:h.71.
,l \\.

\ II. :l19.

ll\\'.\'11.~.
11 w. \':1. :~'!ti.

'!f 1,l,·wli119.

-!t. The verification of any pleading, and the certificate thereof,
may be in form or effect as follows:
'·~tate of West Virginia, --county, to-wit:
A-B--,
the plaintiff (or defendant, as the case may be) named
in the foregoing bill (or answer, replication, or plea, as the case may
he), being duly sworn, says that the facts and allegations therein
contained are true, except so fur as they are therein stated to be on
information, and that so far as they are therein stated to be upon information. he believes them to he true .
. \-B---,
J'/,,iutijf 11r d,fr11da11I.
Taken, sworn to and subscribed before me this -- day of--.
C-D---~ rlrr]: (or other otlicer swearing him).··
lf the party required to Yerify a pleading be an administrator or
other fiduciary, it shall he sufficient if he swear that he believes the
plea or other pleading to he true.
~\ bill of injunction to be sworn
to h,r any person other than the plaintiff', or answer to n bill of injunction to be sworn to hy a person other than the defendant making
the answer, must be so drawn as to show which of the allegations
therein contained are made on information and belief, and the verification thereof must he in form or effect as follows:
"~late of West Virginia, ---county,
to-wit:
.\-U---,
being duly sworn says, that he is the agent (or
*6 )luur.
33:.l; 4 W.

4~: f Ruud. ·HH; t\ H1111d. Hti; 8 L••h.:11 7'.!'J; I:? l,•·ii:h -179: I\\'. \'11. 3:lll:'!'l W. \"."L
45, 003; 10 w. \"11. !'iO'i.

v«.

Digitized by

Google

CH. 125. J

Rnr.ss

AND

Pr.axruxos.

807

attorney, &c., as the case may he) of the plaintiff named in the foregoing bill (or of the defendant named in the foregoing answer), and
that h_e knows the contents thereof; that the facts and allegations
therein contained are true, except such as are therein stated upon
information and belief, and that as to such allegations he believes
them to he true.
C-- D---,
agf•J,t (or attorney) .' ,
.1,ulgmnit 11r dN·1·,·,· 1,,1/ confession,
43. In any suit a defendant may, in the vacation of the court, .,,.,,.
confess a judgment or decree in the clerk's office, for so much principal and interest as the plaintiff may he willing to accept a judgment
or decree for. The same shall he entered of record by the clerk in
the order book, and be as final and as valid as if entered in court on
the day of such confession, except merely that the court shall have
such control over it as is given by section sixty of this chapter .

l~l'l'!.ch.,t.

.fudgmf'lil or decree in 1/,,. offi,:,· 11.11 default,
·H. If a defendant who appears, fail to plead, answer or demur to Id.
the declaration or bill, a rule may he given him to plead.
1f he fail:~ \~r'.11~;:~\~;.
to appear at the rule day at which the process against him is returned ;~\. ,.11_ sea
executed, or when it is returnable to a term, at the first rule day:~
t~:
nfter it is so returned, the plaintiff, if he has filed his decluration or
hill, may have u conditional judgment or decree ui.-;i ns to such defendant. No service of such decree 11i.'4i or conditional judgment
shall he necessary. But at the next rule day after the same is entered, if the defendant continue in default, or at the expiration of
any rule upon him with which he fails to comply, if the case he in
equity, the hill shall be entered as taken for confessed as to him, and,
if it be at law, judgment shall be entered against him, with an order
for the damages to be inquired into: when such inquiry is proper.
4-:). There need he no such inquiry in an action for debt upon any .\•·ts IHH".!.ch.7I.
bond or other writing tor the payment of money, or against the
drawer or endorser of a hill of exchange or ne!!otia:hle note or in an! R111.11<11• 11~;.__.
'
····~ J
,.t.
action of debt or srirc facia.'4 upon the judgment or recognizance.

~r r:::

i\N.:::~:·· ,W·

Holl' ojJict· J11dg11w11t ix se! asid«, or Of'crmu'.'1 final;

[t«

,ffn·t.

-16. Every judgment entered in the clerk's office in a case wherein .\ct" 1~.!.1'11.,1.
there is no order for an inquiry of damages, and every non-suit or~
dismission entered therein, shall, if not previously set aside, become [ ~:~::~: ~A~·
a final judgment on the last day of the next succeeding term of the~ 1~.1 11":°:!t,1.
court. wherein the action is pending, If tho action in which such
judgment is entered be one for the recovery of money arising out of:~ ~h\:'.f~\;}
contract and the plaintiff has filed with his declaration ( which in all aw. ,·11. 1-10.
'j w. \' II, :l:ir1.
such cases he may do) an affidavit stating that there is, as he verily s w .. \'a: -1:,'.!.
.
II \\. \ a. lt!U.
believes, due and unpuid from the defem l ant to 1 11m upon the de- t9R
1~
mand or demands stated in the declarution, including principal and w. v». :.'97.
interest, after deducting all paymonts, credits and sets-off made h~·
the defendant. nnd to which he is ent.itled, a sum certain to he named
in the affidavit, no plea shall he filed in the case either at rules or in

~:::::r :1.
~t~:

~fl~~::,•:/::

Digitized by

Google

Itur.ss

808

[CH. 125.

AND PLEA DINOS.

court, unless the defendant shall file with the plea, his affidavit that
there Is not, as he verily believes, any sum due from him to the
plaintiff upon the demand or demands stated in the plaintiff's declaration; or stating a sum certain less than that stated in the affidavit
of the plaintiff, which, as he verily believes, is all that is due from
him to the plaintiff upon the demand or demands stated in the plaintiff's declaration. If such plea and affidavit he not filed judgment
shall he entered for the plaintiff hy the court for the sum stated tn
his nttldavit, with interest thereon from the date of the aflldavit till
pnid. And if such plea and alflduvit be filed by the defendant and
it he admitted in such affidavit that any such sum is due from the
defendant to the pluintitl', [udgrncut may he taken by the plaintiff for
the sum so admitted to be due, with interest thereon from the date
of the pluint itls affidavit till puid, and the case tried as to the residue. 1 f the plnintitf has not tiled such uftldavit with his declaration,
and the olllce judgment in the case be not set aside, the [udgment
shall not be entered by the oourt until the plaintiff' files such nttldavit
or proves his case in open court, and the judgment in either case
shall he entered as heretofore provided for. If the case he one arising out of contract in which there is an order for an inquiry of damages, and the plaintiff" has filed with bis declnrat ion the affidavit
hercinbefore mentioned, no plea shnll he filed in the case' either at
rules or in court, unless the defendant shull file therewith the ntfldavit hereinhefore required to set aside an otllce judgment in which no
order for nn inquiry of dnmugos had been made.
When a jury is
impaneled to execute nn order for an inquiry of damages their oath
shall he that they will well and truly find the amount, if any, which
the plaintiff is entitled to recover in the action, and a true verdict
render according to the evidence.
And the uttldavit of the plaintiff
hereinhefore mentioned shall he legal evidence on such inquiry.
t;·.~~lf.;;;_4'11·71. -t7. If n defcndnnt against whom a judgment is entered in the
1;~li:!.:rnl. office, whether un order for
an inquiry of damages has been made
f\~_;_r1~\~: %·,. therein or not, shall, before the end of the term at which it becomes
\!:~.l~tff. final. appeur :1.11cl plead to issue, nnd shall, in the C'RSC8 mentioned in
"'\\.
,·11. -tri:!. the next. preeediug section in which an affidavit is required,
flip such
II W. \"11. :r,t
.
11 w. \'11. AA-,. atlldavit with his plen, the judgment shall he set aside, but if the
Ill\\. \'11. :t.!:i
:!! w. v«. :!"-,;l judgment has been entered up in court or the order for an inquiry of
:.:-1 w. v«. 1.
I
l
l .
I 11 not he set :\SIC. il' Wit. h out go«H
. I
:!i w. V:i.:-t.!.filO. c umages U\S hC('II executer , It. H m
cause hP shown therefor. Any such issue may he tried at the same
term, unless tho defendant show hy nftklavit, filed with tho papers,
goo<l cause for n continuuuco. But the plaintiff shall have the right
to cross-examine tho defendant upon the matters contained in such
affidavit.

:~'f~·i:~

~ ~r·

l'r11r·,·,·di11!1.'I
•,1.,~

ll<-"l"!.,·11;1.

l,,11 attoch mrnt ,~(frr

/,ill lal.·,·11 f11r ,·,111f,·.'(Nl'fl.

-H( Alt.hou~h u hill ht• taken for confessed as to any clt•fl'ndant.
the plaint itf may ha ve an nttaehmeut ngninst him, or an order for him
to be brought in to answer interrogatories.
No plea or demurrer

Digitized by

Google

Cn. 12!>. J

809

RULES AND PLEA THNC18.

shall be received after such attachment, unless by order of court,
upon motion.
49. If a defendant, after process of contempt, put in an answer 1<1. _
I 1-1. ,\: M. 310.
which is adjudged insufficient, the plaintiff may go on with the sub- rn w. ,." HtH.
sequent process of contempt, as if no answer had been filed, or, at
the option of the plaintiff, if the bill be verified, the court may
thereupon render such decree in the case as may be just.
W!trn a su]! in equity may IH· sr! for lu·t1ri119.

50. A plaintiff in equity may, at or after the rule day at which the ~'t~~1!r..!i~f'.-;1.
bill is taken for confessed ns to any defendant, or at which his answer ] ~1~\~'.r:!.:;·
is filed, have the cause set for hearing as to such defendant; and it:~~:~:;:: 17'.-1·
may be so set for hearing on the answer, or upon a general replica- t7 w. v». ~o.
tion thereto, as the plaintitf may prefer. If two months elapse after
the answer of a defendant is filed, without the case being so set anti
without exceptions being filed to his answer, he ma)' have the case
set for hearing as to himself.
51. If a suit in equity he set for hearing as to any defendant, it
shall he heard as to him, unless his interests he so connected with- 1,,·h:'h ni11.
those of other defendants in the suit, that it would he improper to
decide upon their interests separately. Aud though there be such
connection, a defendant as to whom the case has been set for hearing may have an order upon the plaintiff to use due diligence to mature the cause for hearing as to the other defendants, and, unless it
he so matured within such time as tho court may deem reasonable,
shall he entitled to a hearing or dismission of it as to him.

~,~.';~.:~J~~'.1.,1.

W/11-rf' tt casr is r,·"d.lJ 0111,'I ;,s to part of t/11· d,f,,11dm1tR.
~ :, \''h
. an nct1011
.
•
IRS-.!.1·h.'il.
~~.
,, ere, m
or suit. against
two or more < f e f enr) ants, .\r.t,;
1 11. ,\
4~.
4 I 1. ,\: ~I. :.'\l:t
.
I
f
l
h
l
.
'tf
l
t 1 ie process rs serves upon part o t rem, t c p :unt1 may procoer to s ~t1111r. ~,.
. l
1
I itl
1·
ti
.
1
I ,_1 ~t1111r. ior,.
JU< gment as to any so server , anc Cl - ier < iscon muc it as tot wot 1- :.1 tt:11111. 441,.
ers, or from time to time, as the process is served as to such others, ; :::::~:: ~proceed lo judgment :\S to them until [udgments be obtained against r)\/11./~_:1.~:
all.
:llltl.
·

~1.

0f'ltt'l'(II

j>l'IJl'.i.~i,,11.'(.

Ar.I,; IH>l'..!.1'11.'il.
6 (ir11tt .• ~ 174.

r>:-1. At any time before final decree, a dofendnnt
may file hisPu~11t!. :lH~.•
s w. \ 11. Iha.
answer, hut a cause shall not he sent to the rules or continued, be- H w. v». -1:,:! .
.
fl)
1
·
.
l
l
I
h
I
fttl
.
IO\\". \'II, IH..
cause an answer rs l'( in it, nn ess go0< cause Jes own ,y a ( ant, .Ufl.
_ .
11
filed with the papers therefor."
w. ':1. -lfl4.
• I
\''l
• t'fr
,in equtit -Y fil
.\d;; !!/~~.ch.ii.
a-..
,, ien u p l um
1
1 cs excep titons t o nn answer, ti ie -11tn,11l.:!f,o
. .:.1_
exceptions shall at once he set for argument.
:1-,.""· ,·11· 10"·
r,r,. When exceptions to an answer have been sustained, if the de- .-\t•ls IAA-!.ch.71.
fondant put in a second answer. which is ndjudged insultleient, hc]:..,_w. v». 108·
may he examined upon interrogatories and committed until he an-~ w. v«. :!ti.'",.
swers them.
5fi. When a plea is offered in any actiou or suit, which is not suf'~~tf~;:71flcicnt in law to constitute a <ldenel' therein, the plain ti ti' may object•:\\"·
\:i. 0~41.t w. \ II, (;~'°I.
to the filinsr
O thereof on that zround and the same shall he rejected, tow. ,·11. ai".r,.

.~~t

r-,

'

:!:!\\". \'11. 381.
:!6 W. V11. 48.

Digitized by

Google

Rnr.ss

810

ANn

[Cn, 1 ~5.

PLEAm~os.

Hut if the court overrule the objection and allow the plea to be filed,
the plaintiff may take issue thereon without losing the benefit of the
objection, and may, on an appeal from a judgment rendered in the
case in favor of the defendant, avail himself of the error committed
in allowing such plea to he filed, without excepting to the decision of
the court thereon .
.\<1ts 11«!.l'h.11.
5i. WlJen a defendant in equity in his answer alleges new matter
\t \.':';. ~!i. constituting u claim to affirmative relief, the case shall be decided
upon the same principles, and the same relief shall he deemed in the
case, as if a cross-bill had been filed to obtain such relief.
~;:~~-'~~:·:J.i.it1.
5~. Whent!ver in any case a complete determination of the con:!fl ,, . v». -1:.'7. troversy can not be had without the presence of other parties, the
court muy cause them to be made parties to the action or snit by

1~

amendment.

5H. When a defendant in equity shall, in his answer, deny any
matertal ullegutiou of the bill, the etrect of such denial shall only be
I\W.\'a.:!W.:!!i6.
· "tf on sutis
'f aetorv proo f o f t l re trut h· o f sue h a11 t-ga1 w. ,·11.611u1t. to put t I re P l mnu
j1'\, ~\-1J~·:1::: tion, and any evidence which satisfies the court or jury of the truth
~"'·w. ,·11. ars. thereof shall be sufficient to establish the same.
.,,.," JfH-l.ch.71.

:1

1;:~::.F~n.

tl67.
16 W. \'11. tl:!fi.
:.'fl W. \'11. IIJII.

(

'out rol

of' u

court urrr p~·o,·t•,·di11gs i11 th« offic,,.

60. The court shall have control over all proceedings in tho oftlce
during the preceding vacation.
It may re-instate r1.11y cause diseon:i (irntt. '.!37.
•
1:! c;rnu. 31:!.
tinned during such vncntion, set aslde any of the proceedings or
ll\\.\'11.:!i'O.IM.
,
k
.
l
k
f
•
II w. \'11. a.%. correct any mista e therein, am ma e sue· 1 order concern an~ the
I:!\\'. \'11. 1:tt
•
1.
•
same as may oe Just.
. ,,.,:- lf4.lo!:!.l'h.r1.

-' I,,·hd• :J~

l'l,·,,dingx, rtc., i11 ,,cti1111s 011 policir» of ineurnuc« .
61. .-\ declaration or count on a policy., of insurance, whether the
policy he under seal or not, may he in etf ect as follows:
;,_A-B-complains of ('-D--,
who hus been sum,M. Mo.~.
.,
;! ,, . v«. 368. moned to answer this: For that the defendant, by virtue of the
;;;,\. Y_11. 6:!'.!. policy of insurance herewith filed (or a copy of which is herewith
~
ssa filed), owes ( I iere state t lre amount . c l auue
. d unr Ier t l te po 1·icy) to t b C'
:n w.
w. v». 8.;1.
plaintiff for loss in respect to the property (or subject) insured hy
said policy, caused by (here insert the cause of loss in general terms,
for example: hy fire, by the damages of navigation, or otherwise, aecording to the fact) on or about the -day of --i
in the year
--,
at (or near to ---,
stating the place at or near to which the
loss ocurred) ."
If the declnration or count be on a life policy, then it shall ht• :,4ufflr-ient to follow the above form in effN•t down to and including tho
word "plaintiff,·· and add thereto in (~tfcctas follows:
'' Because of the denth of K F., whose life was insured hy said
policy, and who died on or about the -duy of --.
in the year
--i
at (or nour to, stating the place where his death occurred)
--,
·· or, if the fuct lw so. t.lu- plaintiff may state in· tho declaretion or count that the timo or pluce where the loss or death occurred
is unknown to him, giving in general tcrws such information u may
• \cti. lfl'i'i.ch.OO.
~ I.
,~. ,·h. 11.
M w. \"11. -IH.
III w. v«. sor.

'II.

.

Digitized by

Google

CH. 125.]

RuLEB

811

AND PLEADINGS.

be in bis power in respect thereto.

Nothing contained in this section shall render insufficient in law any declaration, or count which
would be sufficient if this section bad not been passed.
62. If good cause therefor he shown or appear, the court or judge,~~?" 18i7.ch.A6,
in vacation, may order the plaintiff to file a more particular state- !88'.!. ch. 'il.
.
I
a:i w. v». a:.!6.
ment, in any respect, of the nature o f his c aim, or the facts expected to be proved at the trial, and may stay the action until a
reasonable time after such order is complied with; and such statement must be made under the oath of the plaintiff, his officer, agent,
or attorney-at-law, to the effect that the affiant believes the same
will be supported by evidence at the trial. But no such order shall
he made if it appear that there has been unreasonable delay on the
part of the defendant in applying therefor.
63. · In like manner, if good cause therefor appear, and there be no Acts t8i7.ch.oo.
nnressonable delay on the part of the plaintiff in applying for such or- fi.!. ch. 71.
der, the court or judge in vacation, may order the defendant to file2t w. v«. 5'i6.
a more particular statement, in any respect of the nature of his defence, or the facts expected to he proved at the trial, which statement
shall be made under the oath of the defendant, his officer, agent or
attorney-at-law, to the effect that the afflant believes the same will
be supported by evidence at the trial.
64. To any declaration or count on a policy of insurance, whether
um.cb.oo,
the same be in the form prescribed by the sixty-first section of this !~~:~'!·.I:ls.t3i,
chapter or not, and whether the action he covenant, debt or assump-~\'. Va. 605_
sit, the defendant may plead that he is not liable to the plaintiff as :,g/·. Vu. 600.
in said declaration is alleged.
But if in anv action on a policy of rn w. Va. 116.
14 W. Vu. 33.
insurance, the defence be that the action can not be maintained be- 16 w. Va. 658.
368'
cause of tbe failure to perform or comply with, or violation of any~t· v«.
di
.
.
d
h
'
23 W. Va. 258.
cause,
l
con ition or warrantv in, upon or annexe to t e po 1.icy or288.
•
•
~
•
•
2."i W. Va. 622.
contained m or upon any paper winch is mude by reference a part of:?Sw. va.ri8:i.
~. t cmen t in
. writing
' .
. 31 W.
th e po Ii
icy, tl ie < l e f cm Ian t mus t fil ea sta
spectif ymga2
w. Va.
v«. H.'il.
28.'J.
by reference thereto, or otherwise, the particular clause, condition orl:tt· v«. 4<1i',
warranty in respect to which such fuilure or violation is claimed to
have occurred, and such statement must be verified by the oath of
the defendant, his officer, agent or attorney-at-law, to the effect that
the affiant believes the matter of defence therein stated will be supported by evidence at the trial.
65. Upon the plea mentioned in the next preceding section, the A<-ti,; t87i.l'h.fl6.
plaintiff may join issue without other pleading.
But if the plaintitd~. ch. 11.
intends to rely upon any manner in waiver, estoppal or in confession
and avoidance of any matter which may hnve been stated by the defendant as aforesaid, the plaintiff must file a statement in writing,
specifying in general terms the matter on which he intends so to rely;
and such statement must he verified by the oath of the plaintiff, his
agent or attorney-at-law, to the effect the nfflant believes the matter
of reply therein stated will be supported by evidence at the trial.
6t1. If either party to such action fail to file any statement required ;';t" tR'ii . ..t1.oo.
of him by the four preceding sections of this chapter or by the other f 88'.!. ch. ,1.

~t1.1

w

Digitized by

Google

812

PA nn:NT

[CII. 126.

AND SET-OFF.

party pursuant to any of the provisions of the said sections, or if the
statement be adjudged insufficient in whole or in part, the court, as
justice may require, may grant further time for filing the same, or
permit the statement filed to be amended, or may, at the trial, exclude the evidence offered by the party in default as to any matter
which he has so foiled to state or has insufficiently stated.
But no
statement which, in the particulars required by or under the said
sections to be stated or referred to therein, is sufficient to notify the
adverse party in effect of the nature of the claim or defence intended
to be set up against him, shall be adjudged insufficient.

CHAPTER CXXVI.
OJ..' PAYlfENT
Sze.
I.

2.

For forml'r law
on th» 1rnhj1•ct
of this chapter,
3.
Cod« \"11.
1800. ch. 172.
1''nr other rt'r· 4.

SPll

e!'f'UI.Wl'l,Sl'f'

Sl'C•

lion 11.
4 Rund. 2-l!i.

AND BET-fff'F.
~£(.'.

Paymvn t he fort• ,,.•lion brougb t may bi•
plvuded.
Dur,·1111:rnt 11111y puy money Into court 1111
nrc111111t or dr-ht ord111t111l,?••s, n11.J plend
thut plaintiff j,. not eut it k-d to mor«,
l'laiutilf rnny 1wc1•pt till' sum so puid In
full or in part ~utii-factiuu; proceed1111?1 tlwr,•on.
1>..r,•11,lirnt
may t>,i 111lPWt•1l any pnyrncut
or 111•t-01T whh-h 111 so d,•scriht•1l in pl,·u
or account, «tc.. 11,- tu !!in• plnlntilf
notloo ; when ,!,•ht l11 0111• or s,·n•ra I

<ldPnd1111t11 may he· i,c•t <•ff: plaintiff
mnv fll•• counter ,wt-olT. «tc.
ri, }Spl'cf11l pl••a or s,•t-off: proct•etliniz.,
6,
tllt'r•·upon: l'fft-ct or this l'h11ph•r on
7.
voluutarv ol,li1,!11tion11.
8. Wlwn pl•·1ior sl'l-<>ff i.:o.. s to part only or
d,•1111111'1.
9. l>d1•1Hhrnt. eluimine 11 ~,·t·oft' de1•nwtl a
pluintilf, etc.
911. Contruct» in r,·rnPnct• to ,.,,nfrdPr11tt· or
Vlrf.!inin trl'111ur:, notes, whnt dt·r~·nc••
may lJI' m11d1• tllf'f1•tn.

1. In any action of debt, the defeudnnt mny plead payment of the
( or o f so muc h as is
. d ue l >y t Iie con di1t10n)
.
.
before action
b roug Iit, *
2. In any personal action, the defendant may pay into court, to
th e c l er k , a sum o f money on nccoun t o f w l m t ts
· c 1 aime
· d· , or l >y way

8 Grutt. 5.;i.
w. vu.8,73.327,d ebt,

g

ar.i;i.
10 w, vu.

aw.

002.

\'11. 46.

15 W. Ya. 4-t.

of compensation or amends, and plead that he is not indebted to the
plaintiff (or that the plaintiff has not sustained damages) to a greater
amount than the said sum.
3. The plaintiff may accept the said sum either in full satisfaction
and then have judgment for his costs, or in part satisfaction, and reply to the plea generally, and if issue thereon be found for the de.
o:•
Cendant, judgment shall be given for the defendant, and he shall
;\l'.ti, 186R. p. -·
!i Grstt. 460.
recover his costs.
H c'smtt. I IO. ooi.
II uratt.3'i'9. 400.
4. In a suit for any debt, the defendant may at the trial prove,
~~r11tt. 400.
and have allowed against such debt, any payment or set-off which is
6 Cirntt. 310.
I
·1 l . hits P l ea, or .m an account .filw·,l
h
. h
.
2 <im_iu.u;o·.!-3. so ( escrt JC< m
en t erewit , as to gl\-e
12 L,•agh 6'.?7.
h
I
.
·~
.
f
.
t
l
t
l
.
Al
h
h
t1 T.t·h:h ers.
t e P a111t111 notice o its rm. ure, m not ot ierwise.
t oug t h e
5 L•·h:h so.
I
.
f
h
l
.
'fl'
1
.
.
I
.
l
31,t·h.!h 69l'i.
c mm o t e p a111t1 ie joint y against severs persons, anr l t h e setotl' is of a debt, not to nil, hut only to a part of them. this section
a:?9.
shall extend to such set-off, if it appear that the persons against
:?21. whom such claim is, stand in the relation of principal and surety and
~r·.\1.~~~~1136."I. the person entitled to the set-off is the principal. And when the defondant is allowed to file and prove an account of set-off to the

rn;:::f ~!:

:\ n:wk

~ ~~!~:~~Joo.

t

~o'\r~·t!'.:\1~·

13 w. \'11. 83.1.
-l!i W. \"11. IOI. •11 W. v» IR7. :lJi: 12 W. \"n. !i02. 1\\1, r.2. i1t!. ~- 14...._l: 13 W. Va. -4.~. Kt-I: I!', W. \'11. 4.'i6.
-t!i."i. .fl\l, 41:\i.
.fill: rs w. \'11. 6'.!.'): Ii w. \'11. !'ltl:!; IS W. v». 212: 19 w. \"11. t. -19, 60.f; 21 W. \"11. I. 4Ci6: ~
1''orolhl'fl'IU<'!> w. \"11. UO. ltl6: ~ w.
3:J:t :'.X-1.
e;c" Ioot-notv.e
th} W. v». fn.">: IO W. v». 19: :.•o W.
18.1. :l.f.'l: ~l w. ,·11. -t~. iOO: :!J w. \'a. !",fV: ~ W.
v«. 64, -134, &>V: at W. v». 8:J!!: 3'.! W. \'11. 21; 33 W. \'n . .fi0,001. 7'Jt.

,·11.

,·i..

Digitized by

Google

CH. 126.]

p A Y'MENT AND

813

SET-OFF.

plaintiff's demand, the plaintiff shall be allowed to file and prove an
account of counter set-off, and make such other defence as he might
have made had an original action been brought upon such set-off,
and in the issue, the jury, judge, or justice shall ascertain the true
state of indebtedness between the parties, an.<l judgment be rendered
accordingly.
5. In any action on a contract, the defendant may file a plea alleg-j Munr.100. 358.
ing any such failure in the consideration of the contract, or fraud in: ~~ t ~.
its procurement, or any such breach of any warranty to him of the: h:~~~'. i.
title to real property or of the title or the soundness of personal pro-: g~:!t ~:
perty, for the price or value whereof he entered into the contract, as Io0J~.~~i~~~10·
would entitle him, either to recover damages at law from the plaintiff, iw.r~!·. ~:
or the person under whom the plaintiff claims, or to relief in equity,!~~: t!: ~i
in whole or in part, against the obligation of the contract; or if the~~\'· Va. rso,
contract be by deed, alleging any such matter existing before its ex-21
w. Va. W6.
25 w. VIL. 64.W.
ecution, or any such mistake therein, or in the execution thereof, es ee w. Va. 48.
450·
27
would entitle him to such relief in equity; and in either ease alleging w. Vil.
the amount to which he is entitled by reason of the matters contained
in the plea. Every such plea shall be verified by affidavit.
6. If a defendant entitled to such plea as is mentioned in the pre-M.,_w. Va. 00•
ceding section shall not tender it, or though he tender it, if it be~~~: ~.fil'.·
rejected for not being offered in due time, he shall not be precluded~~~;:~!:~.
from such relief in equity as be would have been entitled eo if the
preceding section had not been enacted. If an issue in fact is joined
on such plea and the same be found against the defendant, he shall
be barred of relief in equity upon the matters alleged in the plea,
unless upon such ground as would entitle n party to relief against a
judgment in other cases. Every such issue in fact shall be upon a
general replication that the plea is not true; and the plaintiff may
give in evidence, on such issue, any matter which could be given in
evidence, under a special replication if such replication were allowed.
7. Nothing in this chapter shall impair or affect the obligation of
any bond or other deed deemed voluntary in law, upon any party
thereto or his representatives.
8. If the defendant file a plea or account of set-off which covers
or applies to part of the plaintiff's demand, judgment may be forthwith rendered for the part not controverted, and the costs accrued
until the filing of the plea or account and the case shall be proceeded
with for the residue as if the part for which judgment was rendered
had not been included therein. And if, in addition to such plea or
account, the defendant plead some other plea, going to the whole or
residue of the demand, the case shall not be continued as to the part
not controverted by plea or account of set-offs, unless the additional
plea be also verified by affidavit, or good cause be shown for such ei w.v».100.
continuance.
9. A defendant who files a plea, or account under this chapter,
NOTz-As to the doctrlne or recoupmeut, Se" 2-1 W. ""· 19;33 w.vs. 102, 470;12S.E.R. 1006.
1

Digitized by

Google

814

[Cn. 126.

PA Yl\lENT AND SET-OFF.

shall be deemed to have brought an action against the plaintiff (at
the time of filing the same) for the matters mentioned in such plea
or account, and the plalntitf shall not, after the plea or account is
filed, dismiss his case without the defendant's consent, but shall be
entitled to every groun~ of defence against the defendant's demand,
of which he might have availed himself by special plea or otherwise in any action brought against him upon the same demand.
On
the trial of the issue in such case: the jury shall ascertain the
amount to which the defendant is entitled, and apply it as a set-ott
against the plaintiff's demand, and if the said amount be more than the
plaintiff is entitled to, shall ascertain the amount of the excess, including principul and interest. ,Judgment in such case shall be for
the defendant against the plaintiff for said excess, with interest from
Acts tRi2-3. ch. the date of the judgment till payment.
v». f>f8.
[9a. I. That in any action or suit or other proceeding for the en~'\,,~~-';1~'Ji:t'2· forcement of any contract, express or implied, where such contract
was for the sale or purchase of any real or personal property, made
or entered into between the first day of May, one thousand eight
hundred and sixty-one and the first day of May, one thousand eight
hundred and sixty-five, it shall be lawful for either party to show hy
parol or relevant testimony, what was the true understanding and
agreement of the parties thereto, either express or to be implied, in
respect ro the kind of currency in which the same wns to be fulfilled
or performed, or with reference to which, as a standard of value, it
was made or entered into; and in an action at law or suit in equity
it shall be necessary to plead the agreement specially, in order to
~i~s I8'i2·3· ch. admit such evidence.
1f Va.215.23'.?. 11. Whenever it shall appear that any such contract was according
~.Yn. st. 276. to the true understanding and agreement of the parties, to be ful~-1~. filled or performed in Confederate States treasury notes, or Virgin in
6\\'. Va.215. !!73. treasury notes or was entered into with reference to such notes as a
9\\'. \'a.:..'9tl,a:-1.1.
'
34n. :3!'~·
standard of value, the same shall he liquiduted and settled by re10 \\ . \ u. 7-18.
15 w. v». 44.
dncing the nominal amount due or payable under snch contract in
Confederate States treasury notes or Virginia treasury notes, to its
true value at the time they were respectively made and entered into,
or at such other time as may to the court, or, if it be a jury case, to
the jury seem right in the particular case, and upon the payment of
the value as ascertained, the party hound by such contract shall he
forever discharged of and from the same: l'r"rid,·d. TI.Jat in all
cases where actual payment has been made of nny sum of any such
Confederate States treasury notes, or Yirginia treasury notes, either
in full or in part, of the amount payable under contract, the> party
h,y or for whom the same was paid, shall have full credit for the
nominal amount as paid, and such payment shall not he reduced,
And if any debt payuhle in coin, or its equivalent, hy a principal
debtor has been paid by the security for such .dobt, under und h~·
virtue of a judgment against such security, or other demand for

~'t

;~~J~t

Digitized by

Google

CH. 127.J

815

DEATH OR CHANGE OF PARTIES.

payment upon such security, so that such payment shall operate as a
discharge of the principal debtor from his original obligation under
the provisions of this act, in any controversy between such security
so paying and the principal debtor, the mode of payment by such
security shall not be inquired into.]

CHAPTER CXXYIT.
OF THE DEATH OR f'HASOE

OJ,' PARTIES j AND 'J'IIE lHSCONTINUANCF.

OF CAUSES NOT PROSECUTED.
SEC

1.
2.

Wh .. 11 cl1·11th or ot.lu-r f1wt oc,·nr:1 1Lft1.·r
vn,licl ancl ht!fori, j11tlg111r11t.
Wlll'll it occurs µ""mlini,: suit or uppeul :
whi,r1!r.11u;.1•of action survive»: whr-re
di-uth l)CCUr,- '{>Nl<ling liUit. for ii CI\US•'
of action which do•·~ nut survive at

St:c.

order of revivnl may be e ntered nt
rules.

ft.

\\'hne

7.
8.

tl..fP11d1111l.,\:c.
When sult disconr inuvd. unless revived. l<'or rurmrr law
\\'h~lt cul'<' may l><· strick1.•!1 from tbe 011 thl' suhji•ct
tl,,ckt'l: ort!Pr may h•.• puhhsh•••!·
of thi;; chupu-r,
U,:er1.•t• wherv oue party dh-s or 111 murCodi• Va.

p,uty, whose powers cease, Is

common luw.
:t w her .. it occurs 11.Ctl'r nr1wal, .tc.
Q.
,w,•
t. \\'h,.,1. hy . whom uu, nl{ni111,t whom
rh-d. .
. .
1860,ch.lT,l For
«cire fuciae :111,•d out: whr-n r1uit muv 10. l{1•-lwar1n~ w1th111 flvu yt>u~s.
otht•r
rt•fncuht: revived on motion;
when part y 11. Wheu.c.n~"_t'," lll!'Y,hti.• re-lnstated, undc""
see secmuv have a contlnuauce or ameud
11011-suit.~ set n"'1d1. ,\:1..
tions
ph•itdingi..

l'-.

How such cu uses proc1•1•cled in.

·

r,. Scire fucias may he issued in vacut ion :

1. Where a party dies or becomes convict of felony, or insane, or2 Munr. 336.
the powers of a party who is a personal representative or committee 12 Gratt, sa
cease, if such fact occur after verdict, judgment may be entered as
if it had not occurred.
2. Where such fact occurs in any stage of a cause, whether it be 1 Munt. 269.
in a court of original or appellate jurisdiction, if it occur as to any flL!f:ti~tiitJ.
of several plaintiffs or defendants, the suit may proceed for or against i~
174·
the others, if the cause of snit survive to or against them.
If a:!~:~:!:
plaintiff or defendant die pending any action, whether the cause of
action would survive at common law or not, the same may be revived 24 w. Va. 586·
and prosecuted to judgment and execution in the same manner as if
it were for a cause of action arising out of contract.
3. If, in any case of appeal, writ of error, or supcrscdcas, which
is now or may hereafter be pending, there be at any time in an appellate court, suggested or relied on in abatement, the death of a
party, or any other fact which, if it had occurred after verdict in an
action, would not have prevented judgment being entered (as if it
had not occurred) the appellate court may, in its discretion, enter 1 Wa!ih.t3S, IM.
ju<lgment or decree in such case as if the said fact had not occurred. ~;"11 «.
4. In any stage of any case, a scirr facins may be sued out for or~ U: ~ ::
against the committee of any party who _is insane or a convict; ~>t & M. 211,
or for or against a party before insane, the powers of whose commit- Gilmer t4o.
2 Rand. 454.
tee have ceased; or for or against the personal representative of the 3 Rand. H.
d
.
2 Va. Ca:1. 134.
ece d ent w h o, or w h ose persona l representative, was a party; or for 2 Leiich 42. 344.
7 LPigh 3:!5,7'.al>.
. t th e h errs
. or <l evisees
'
or agarns
o f a d ececI en t w h o was a party; or f or a Gratt,
ess.
.
.
t h e assignee
or bene fl ciary
party, to s h ow cause w h· y t h e suit. s hon Id 4:.? Grutt,
w. vn.86.
r,;4,
3 W. v«. 148·
. th e name o f I11m
· or ti. rem. O r w h· ere th e par t y cI ymg,
·
no t proeeec I m
12 w. v«. aso,
or whose powers cease, or such insane person or convict, is plaintitl'~,v. vn. 382.
or appellant, the person or persons for whow such sci re facins: \i·.

h~~~!'. ::
i~.

Jf ~r ~:: ~:

ffl:

r~·- ~-

Digitized by

Google

816

30 W. Va. 3IIO.

is w.v».

70.
'rt W. Va. 1>10.

29 W.Vn. 396.

DEATH OR CHANGE OF PARTIES.

[CH.

127.

might be sued out, may, without notice or sci-re f 'acius, move that the
suit proceed in his or their name.
In the former case, after service
of the scire f 'acias, or in the latter case, on such motion if no sufficient cause be shown against it, an order sha 11 be entered that the
suit proceed according to such sclre fncias or motion. Any such
new party (except in nn appellate court) may have a continuance of
the case at the term at which such order is entered; and the court
may allow him to plead anew or amend the pleadings as far as it
deems reasonable; but in other respects the case shall proceed to final
judgment or decree for or against him, in like manner as if the case
had been pending for or against him before such scire fucias or
motion.
5. The clerk of the court in which the case is, may issue such scire
facius at any time, and an order may be entered at rules for the case
to proceed in the name of the proper party, although the case be on
the court docket.
6. Where the party whose powers cease is defendant, the plaintiff
may continue his suit against him to final judgment or decree; but he
shall not, at law, proceed in the same action against such defendant
and his successor, nor shall he. in equity, proceed against both upon
bis previous bill, unless an order that the suit proceed against the
former party, be entered at the first term after service of a scire
f ucias for or against such successor.
7. If the committee, personal representative, heirs, or devisees
of the plaintiff' or appellant who was a party, or of the decedent
whose personal representative was plaintiff or appellant, shall not
make such motion or apply for such sci re fucias at or before the second term of the court next after that at which there may have been
a suggestion on the record of the fact making such scire fucias or
motion proper, the suit of such plaintiff' or appellant shall be discontinued, unless good cause be shown to the contrary.
8. Any court, in which is pending any case wherein for more than
four years, there bas been no order or proceeding but to continue it,
may, in its discretion, order such case to be struck from its docket;
and it shall thereby be discontinued.
A court making such order
may direct it to be published in such newspaper as it may name.
9. When in any suit in equity, the number of parties exceeds
thirty, and any one of said parties, jointly interested with others in
any question arising therein, shall die, the court may nevertheless
proceed, if in its opinion 'all classes of interest in the case are represented, and the interest of no one will be prejudiced by the trial of
the cause, to render a decree in such suit as if such person were
alive, decreeing to the heirs at law, distributees, or representatives
of such person, as the case may require, such interest as such person
would have been entitled to, had such person been alive at the date
of the decree.
l O. The provisions of the fourteenth section of chapter one bun.

Digitized by

Google

Ca. 128.]

817

Ru10v AL or CAcsss.

dred and twenty-four shall apply to decrees entered under the preceding section.
11. Any circuit court may on motion, re-instate on the trial
docket .4c!,•\1868,p.llf>.
.
187~- •. ch. 137.
of the court, any case dismissed, and set aside uny non-suit that 1882. ch.1>1.
, ,
3 W.Vn. 26.
may be entered by reason of the non-appearance of the plaintiff, 5 w.va. 182.
within three terms after the order of dismissal may have been made,
or order of non-suit entered.
12. All causes in which orders of dismissal have been made, or Acts 1868.p.111>.
orders of non-suit entered, which orders have been set aside and 1882• ch. 51.
causes re-instated, shall remain upon the <locket, and be proceeded
with in the same manner as if the order had never been made: Provided, That no such cause shall be brought to trial, or proceeded in,
until the defendant therein shall have had at least thirty days personal notice in writing, or if he be a non-resident, by the publication
of such notice once in each week for four successive weeks, in some
newspaper designated by the court, that said cause has been re-instated on the docket.
CHAPTER CXXVIII.
OF THE REMOVAi, OF CAUSES PENDING IN ONE COURT, TO ANOTHER.
811:c.
1.

Power of court or judge to remove cause
!rom one court to another.

1 Sze.
2. Clerk's

dut. y l.n such cause: proceedings
In the court to which tho rt•muval ls
made ; costs, ,\:c.

1. On the motion of any party to a suit in a circuit court, the said Code va.ll!OO,p.
court may, for good cause shown, order it to be removed to any other~t•igh 364.
circuit court. The judge of said court, in vacation, may make such
59.
order, after reasonable notice to the adverse party. The order oq1\lv\~~.1Tiz.
removal may be made by the court or judge without motion or not~: ~:
tice, when the judge is so situated as to render it improper, in his33w. Va. 191.
judgment, for him to decide, or to preside at the trial of the cause.
2. When any suit is ordered to be removed under the preceding Code va.1860,p.
•
•
•
719.
section, the clerk of the court from which, shall transmit to the clerk As to remov~I
hi
h
.
.
d
h
.
.
l
h
.
.
h
cause!'! to U,
o f t h e court to w re tt ts remove , t e ongma papers t erem, wit of
s. courts.
see 5
the copies of all rules and orders made, and a statement of th: costs~~,·~~-:~. 14,;,
incurred by each party therein; whereupon the case shall be proceeded '/'.f\v. vs. s12,
• in, heard and determined by the court to which it is removed as if it:\v. v11. 424,
had been brought, and the previous proceedings had in said court. f:i,v. ,·a. 751.
The costs attending such removal shall be charged as may be thought~~·:J!:
just by the court from which, or if it make no order on the subject,
by the court to which the case is removed.

io\t~: ~~nt.:

=:

Digitized by

Google

818

COMMISSIONERS

IN CHANCERY.

[CH.

129.

CHAPTER CXXIX.
(.\:,; l't!\'i\'1°11. n1111•11d1.•<l nud re-enacted.
APPOISTllJ!NT

OF

CO)DIISSIOSERS

ON

ACCOt:STS

IS

See .\ cts l!l82, ch. 57.)

CllANCKltY,

RE1''ERRED

SEC.

TO

AND

PROCEEDISGS

rus».

SEC.

1.

Circuit courts, .•1.:1: .. to nppoint und r1•mov» co1111111s,-11111l'rs 111 chaucery ;
pnw,•r,- and d ut ies nr.
•>
Onth ot otllc».
3.. \c,:ounb to b« t11kP11 tn lH~ rl·C1.•rred to:
11111\' of 11,; to such uceounts.
For fornwr 111 w 4. What notie« court 11111\' ,lirt·<·t conuuissiom-r to puhlish and •·lft•t'.l of.
on tlw s11hj1•ct. _
or this ehnpn-r, a. ,Jurll.(emuy ordvr an aceo11111. ut a n v ti1111•
ntn-r proc•'"" i" s••n•etl. thouuh 'causr•
'"'" c...i ... Va. I
not dncketi,d; uot iev in writi111.? to hi'
HWl,ch.17fi. For
~iv,•11.
o t h ,i r r ,, r ,. r6, Conunisslour-r muv ask instructlous
ences,
tlw jurlg,•, when,'
ti Oil ti.
7. Cn111111issio1wr may adjourn proc«.. dilll.?S
!torn time to ti1111.• wlrhout new not leo ;

or,

8.

9.
10.

r,•port to lw kept t•·11 dn_\·s for •·xamrnn t1011: pn rti,•s i II ter .. st1•1l mn~· in>41M'Ct
rvpor t und Ill" 1•x•'.1·ptto11:< t hvre to ;
what to IH· l\l••d with report: proceedinl{s on •'X<'.<'ptions.
What to IH• n-turned with r•·port; not to
c,,py c<'rtaln mat.11·rs tlwr<·in; re port
r•··~nn1111itl<·<l. wlu-n to '"' at commis,..inrwr's cost,-; his dut v aft<'r •lw udjuur nnu-ut. of l':1ch term 'of court.
\\"h•·n ,:aus,• mu v lw hvurd on couuu is,.j,,u,•r',; report, Wlwn iin account ma v br- t11k••11 aml
"tat,•,I in 1111 nction "at Jaw; ft•t•i< In
,-11<!11 l'IL"t'i.

l • E ac h circui
·
it cour t anr l every con rt o f 1·unite
· d J· urrsc
· tiiction
·
now
~;~t~'i~r~h.34. existing or which may hereafter he estnhllshed for any incorporated
f~. ch. m. city, town or village, may from time to time appoint not more than
19
w. Vn. 67· four commissioners in chancery, or for stating accounts, who shall be
removable at its pleasure, with power to take depositions and to
.swear and examine witnesses and to certify their testimony.
The
judge of any court empowered to appoint commissioners in chancery,
or for stating accounts, may in vacation appoint such commissioners
with as much effect as if appointed hy the court, and they shall have
,\cts 187'.!-3. ch. the like powers.
ch. 34, s 2.
2. Every such commissioner, before proceeding to act, shall take
57·
IBl:t!, ch.
an oath faithfully nnd impartially to discharge his duties .
•-\(1t11 1~.ch.57.
3. Accounts to be taken in any case shall be referred to a com3 Grutt. 230.
1~ Gratt, 400.
missioner so appointed to be named in the decree or order, unless
7 W. Vu. tl7.
s w. Va. 400. the parties interested agree that they be referred to some other per9 W. Vu. 1.
16 w. v11. 6:.?.';. son.
In' case all the commissioners of a court, appointed under S('C19 W. Vu. -t:~.
'
f h
h
h
'
.
~1 w. Va. tlf>6. tion one o t is c apter, are by reason of interest or ot erwise 10444·
:.".!
W.
Vu,
'tat
d
t
l
h
'
'
d
f
il
es w. vu. 6.'xl. capaci
e o net, nm t e parties intcreste
at to agree on a per~ W. Vu.5.'16.
es w. Vu, 481. son to whom the reference may be made, the court may direct a
~ ~t: ~o. refereupe to some other person. Every commissioner shall examine
~ ~~: \1~.1~~- and report upon such
accounts and matters as may he referred to
him hy any court, and such report may he re-committed to said
commissioner, or to nny other, for other and final report."
~'~·'" IS81.ch.:w,
4. The court ordering an account to be taken, may direct that
n;it~v 7w. notice of the time and place of taking the same, be published once
a week for four successive weeks in some newspaper published in
the county; and if none he so published, then in some newspaper
having a general circulation in the county, and by posting a copy of
the same at the front door of the court house of said county, at least
twenty days before the taking of the account; or the court may dispense with the publication, and require the notice to be posted at the
front door of the court house of said county, nod at least four other
Acts 1872-3, ch.
6.'>.

~:i.

r:~:

~tll~

*As to th» ril,!ht of crvditor» to voutest 1•ad1 others e lu ltns bt·Cor1· 11 eounnlssiouer
cery, sec 9 W. Vu. :..'00; U
Va. 211.

w.

Digitized by

lo ehan-

Google

CH. 129.]

819

CoMMIBBIONERB IN CrrANCERY.

public places in said county, twenty days before the time set for
taking the account; such publication and posting, or such posting
alone shall be equivalent to personal service ~n the parties or any of
them.
5. The judge of a circuit court, or of a court of limited jurisdic- Act,- 18i7.<:'hJl6 .
.
f or any •incorporatec l city,
·
.
tion
town or vi"}l age, may, .m vacation,
or IHHl,ch.34.fi.
ti«!. ,·h. r,1.
.in term time,
.
h
l
h
h
d
k
k
t oug 1 t e case be not upon t e court oc et, ma e an l:? W. Vu. 541.
order in any cause pending in his court at any time after process has
been duly served on the defendants or such of them as may appear
to be interested in the subject matter upon which the commissioner
is to report, or ut any time after such defendants have entered their
appearance in said cause, referring the same to a commissioner for
the purpose of stating any proper account or reporting upon any
matter which it is pr~pcr there should he a commissioner's report in
said cause.
But no such order of reference shall be made in any
cause until reasonable notice in writing has been served upon the opposite party or his attorney, of the time and pince of making said
motion.
6. A commissioner who doubts as to any point which arises before Acts IH8l.d1.3-1.
him, in taking an account to be returned to any court, may in writ- f~. ch. st.
ing submit the point to such court, or the judge thereof, who may
instruct him thereon.
Acts 1881.ch.3-I.
19.
7. A commissioner may adjourn his proceedings from time to time I!!ltl. ch. M.
.
.
.
5 \\'. Vil. ltl'J.
a f tcr t h e day to which notice was given (without any new notice) until 6 w. VIL. ·U7.
hi
. completed,
I
l unr l w h en it. ts
. comp I etert,l un I ess .it .rs ot l ier- 910W.w.V11.\·11..I, :?U8,
434.
is report ts
wise ordered by the court, or agreed bv the parties, he shall retain it ~5,\·. vu. 21a.
.
.
. ~
.,
I
t .
h H w. Vil. f,31.
t en <1 ays f or t l ieir cxaminntion.
,'l.ny party wit rout ieing at t e u1 w. v11. 1111.
expense of taking a copy, may inspect the report and tile exceptions:t·
vn. IIH.
thereto; and the commissioner shall, with his report, return the ex-:~:~~: ~=t'::
ceptions, and such remarks thereon as he may deem pertinent, and ~-'~.vn. !!tl:!.
the evidence relating thereto.
But any party may except to such re-:,~· Vn. 159·
port at the first term of the court, to which it is returned, or by leave;::t· Vil. 5:?-1.
of court after said term.
In an exception it shall he sufficient to ~oo~"it./a. 416,
state the item or part of the report to which objection is made; but ~o.";:!!l~·a. 00:1.
the court may, nevertheless, if good cause therefor appear, .require
Vil. :!:!O.
the exception to be made more specific, or the grounds therefor to :!9 w. \'11. :.>111.
so W. v«. 1'16,
he stated therein, and mav overrule or disregard such exception if m.
• • •
•
32 W. Vu. ss.;.
1•
the requlsition be not complied with.
33 w. Va. 159.
8. With his report the commissioner shall return the decrees, or- Acti. 1881,ch.34.
ders and notices under which he acted.
He shall not copv in his f~. eh, 57.
;
nccoun t or report any paper; an d tif t h ere h as I.ueen a previous
ac- p11W.w.\'IL.Vil.00:i.5.'i!!.
count, he shall not copy it into his report, but taking it as the basis ~"IR\\". v«. 301.
of his, correct the errors and supply the defects thereof by an additional statement,
Everything improperly copied into n commissioner's account shall he expunged at his costs on the application of
either party; and if on account of his negligence or misconduct a report be re-committed, he shall hear the costs occasioned thereby. He
shall immediately after the adjournment of each terui of the court,
w

•

:t··

Digitized by

Google

820

[CH. 130.

RYIDENCE.

proceed to take all accounts referred to him by any order or decree
of the court, and all adjournments and postponements of the taking
of any account, shall be for good cause, to be shown by the affidavit
of the party making the application, which shall be filed with the papers in the cause.and if the commissioner unreasonably delays his report, be shall receive no compensation for the same.
Mti. 187'J-3. ch.
9. A cause may be heard upon a commissioner's report at any time
138, § 6.
11:1x1. ch. a.i.§ 11. after it is returned, and the court may, for good cause shown by any
18.U'J. eh. 57.
4 Grutt, !fl.
party interested, hear a cause on a commissioner's report returned
13Grntt. ~•
1 w. Vu. a11.
after the commencement of the term of court at which such hearing
H W. \' u. 218.
• d .
]
d
,
·
•
b
:!9 w. va. 210. is esirec to be ha , but the court in this latter case may require t e
party desiring the hearing to give reasonable notice to the opposite
party or to his attorney.
Act»i IS7:?-a.
ch.
10 • At l aw m
' any case 111
· w hiic h 1it may l ,e d eeme d necessary, th e
138.
5.
57·
I88'J. ch.
court may direct any such commissioner or oth~r competent person,
either before or at the time of trial, to take and state an account between the parties, which account, when thus stated, shall be deemed
prima facic correct, and may be given in evidence to the court or
jury trying the case, and the commissioner or other person shall be
allowed for such services the same fees that would be allowed a commissioner for similar services, to be taxed in the bill of costs.

CH.APTER CXXX.
( As amended

uud re-enacted.

Stm Acts 1882. ch, 160.)

OF EVIDENCE.
sec
I } J>roc1•Pdinl!s or the JPi:islnturP and sh:·
tn
nnt.urv of )!ov1•r1ior or jm.1:,:,•s to ht! evl3.
dt•IWI',
4 }
t.
Coples oC c1•rtain 1l•·Pd.-.. records und
papc•rs in public otllet•i-, to ht• evidence.
7
8. Court may order origln11l paper dvlivered to uny person uml retain eort ltle d
copy.
9, Courts mny ord..r certn lu _ books, ,\:c..
to bt.• bound or trunscrtbed : ullowuuee tlwr .. ror, how paid: what. fuith
10..
and credit to ht• i:in•n such h1H1k11.
11. Book,1, ,tc .. mnv lw houn,t out of 1•,111111,·.
I:? lWl11•1'1•. pn per .. ln uny lt·,.ml pr1M!l'l'tlinirs.
For former la\Y
books cont1~init11! jml!,!m"nb, ,\:c .. r,·c·
ords of wl lls, deeds, ,\:c., are lost,
011 thii. i.uhj,•ct to
s1•t' Code v«.
J how l't·stor1·tl: l'fTt•ct of: new pl1•111l1860.ch.176. t'or
Ines ftled or new suit inxritutod,
further r e r ,. r- 14.
when.
t'llet'II
sett iwc-15. What books or pnpPrs d,.,.111,•tl lost.
tlun11.'
16. Clnk'i; r,•,•s In c1·rt11l11 en"""·
17. } flow conu-nts of lost hook or ps ps-r
\ t
h
l'>1t1thlish .. d ; wh1•11 p,•rson a1T1•c1 .. d, uulOO s 1882• 0 · 18. der disuhlllt.y, what to be <10111•.
6 ~iunf. 324.

°.

l

l

i ~t'~t; ~-

SEC.

HI } Recnrtl1< nnd ntH11,· books out n( tht'
'
St.at,•: l'lft,ct or t~l'rllO,•d copi,•s u,i evi00.
dl'IIIW,
~I. l<'or,•il!n <l••••ds. 1,nw1•rs of 11ttorn,•y, policivs of insurunce, .-.:,~ .• when ,•vidt•utw.
J9

}

:.tr-:,.,,

}How

:...
;o1_
_
:!fl.
~I.

Compc•tency
euuses.

of

witnesses

wlt11e~sP_11 compelled
to
t
I 1 IICts
rcum,
\\'itn"~" to bt• sworn by whom.

in

civil

wstlfy:

,mpcMltl

al. Interprvu-rs.
:11 }
to or nOhluvit..'I and depositions.
38.
:i\l. How u-sttmony muy be perpetuated.
~O I
to ~Allowanet• lo witnm~scic for 1'ltl'ndanN>.
-t:?. J
-i3. Production of doeumc-nts.
4-1, '· J·:lft·d nf pnrti1•s' 11h,-.•11cl' for s••vt>n
45. 1 y .. ar11.
41\. E,dudinll 1•,•itl1•11c1• for wunt of pnrucu1
_ln_r,. of ~1i1im ~r.d,·f~,111:.e.
47. Evidence 111 untrgutrou of <luma~1·:<.

Proct·t:ding, of tlu· frgisl<tlllrt• and sig11-<1f11rc of got•a,wr or jwlge~.
1. Acts and resolutions of the legislature, though local or private,
: ~l~sa~:.:.·(IL!I may be given in evidence Without being Specially pleaded j and an
~·~i~e':."i°rothernppellate court shall take judicial notice of such as appear to have
been relied on in the court below.*
Act;; Ul8:?. ch.
2. Copies of the journal of either house of the legislature, printed
ta>.

~;:~~:_t; or

(as

Con-

*6 W.

vs. sse. 300; 9 W. v«. 358;

If> W. Vu. 3W; 2f! w.

vs. 81.

Digitized by

Google

CH. 130.]

821

J4~VIDENCE.

by authority of theIeglalature, shall be received as evidence for any
purpose for which the original journal could be received.
'
3. All courts and officers
shall take notice of the signature of any
of the judges, or of the governor of this State, to any judicial or
official documents.

rg·w.

Vil. 362.

Copies of certain deeds ecidcuce; records and papers in puUic office.
4. Copies of deeds, acknowledged or proved and certified accord- Acts 1882. ch.
ing to the net of the general assembly of Virginia, of the thirteenth ~~}ru.tt. 11s.
of December, one thousand seven hundred and ninety-two, and 8 w. v». 240•
placed upon record after the expiration of two years, the period prescribed by the act of the twenty-fifth of December, one thousand
seven hundred and ninety-four, but before the passage of the act of
the seventh of February, one thousand eight hundred and fourteen,
shall be received in evidence, and have all the force and effect of
copies of deeds recorded within two years, the period prescribed as
aforesaid:
Proridrd, That nothing in this section shall be construed
to affect the rights of creditors and subsequent purchasers without
notice.
5. A copy of any record or paper in the clerk's office of any court Acts 1882, ch.
or in the office of the secretary of state, treasurer or auditor, or in ~~v11i.11.21s. 218.
the office of surveyor of lands of any county, attested by the offlcer~~~1279.
in whose office the same is, may be admitted as evidence in lieu oft~11~!1;·~·
the original.
The certificate of the auditor of the fact and time of~ f:~{~1; ~the return Of any real estate as delinquent, or of the sale thereof forf5G0~!h.~iio.
taxes, shall be prim a fucie evidence of what is stated in such certifi- ~
300.
cate.
Any such copy or certificate purporting to be sealed, or signed:~~~:~:!: ~t.
and sealed, or signed alone, by any such officer, may be admitted as evi- :?5 w. v». 58.
dence without any proof of the seal or signature, or of the official
character of the person whose name is signed to it. The certificate
of the auditor of the payment or non-payment at any time of taxes
on forfeited or delinquent lands or of their not having been entered
on the books of the assessor of the county or counties wherein the
same were chargeable with taxes, shall, in any suit in relation to
such lands, be prinui fucie evidence of what is stated in such certificate, provided it be filed with the papers of said suit and notice
thereof be given to the opposite party or his attorney at least twenty
days before the first day of the term at which it is to be offered as
evidence.
When the certificate purports to be signed by the said
auditor, it may be admitted as evidence without proof of his signature.
[5a. I. That the certificate of the clerk of any county court of the Acts lSTl-3, ch.
001•
entry or non-entry of any tract of land for taxation on the books of
the commissioner of the revenue or assessor of any county wherein
the land ought to have been charged or of the delinquency of any
such land for the non-payment of taxes charged thereon, and the
amount of the taxes charged as delinquent shall in any suit in relation to such lands be prima facic evidence of what is stated in such

~~:);:iJ":.·

Digitized by

Google

822

[CH. 130.

J4~VlDENCE.

certificate:
Proridal, It be filed with the papers of said suit and notice thereof given to the opposite party or his attorney, at least
twenty days before the first day of the term al which it is to he offered as evidence.
When a certificate purports to be signed by any
such clerk, it may be admitted as evidence without proof of his
signature.]
IP8'J. eh.
6. Such a copy of any writing filed in a suit, may be filed in an1
other suit on the same writing, and the defendant shall plead thereto
as if the original were filed.
i~t.~·Jo.1oa. 7. The provisions in the two preceding sections contained, shall
~o. apply to a copy of nny record or paper in the clerk's office of any
~1'ti·_v\~;l~1">. court in the state of Virginia, or in the office of the secretary of the
the commonwealth, treasurer, register of the land office, or either
auditor, or any surveyor of lands of that state, attested as aforesaid:
and to any certificate of the auditor of public accounts of that state
as to the return of any real estate as delinquent, or sale thereof for
taxes or payment or non-payment of taxes on forfeited or delinquent
lands, or non-entry of lands on the books of the commissioners of the
revenue:
Procidcd , That such certificate of the auditor as to the
payment or non-payment of taxes on forfeited or delinquent lands,
or non-entry of such lands on the hooks of the commissioner of the
revenue, be filed with the papers in any suit in rclntion to such
lands, and notice thereof he given to the opposite party or his attorney, at least forty days before the first day of the term at which it is
to be otf ered us evidence.
Acti- 188~. ch.
8. 'I'he court in the clerk's office whereof there is an original pa100.
per filed in a cause (although decided) may, for good cause, order it
to be delivered to any person, retaining in its stead a certified copy
thereof, and make any order to prevent the improper use of the
original.
~ts lf!i'.!·3· ch.
9. The circuit or county court of any county may order any of the
100·
l88"J. eh.
books and records in the office of the surveyor of such county, and
any of its own books or records, to be bound or transcribed, and
shall make a reasonable allowance therefor, which shall be paid out
of the county treasury .
•~'.~ I~~. ch.
10. No such allowance shall he made for any transcript until commissioners appointed for the purpose by the courts shall have examined it and written at the foot thereof a certificate of its correctness.
Thenceforth the same faith and credit shall IJP, given to it that the
book or record transcribed would have been entitled to.
11. A court may have any of its books or records taken out of the
111.
county to be bound.
Arts IR6.1. p 31.
12. Where any hooks contnining judgments, decrees. orders or
I~. ch. 100.
proceedings of a court, or proceedings at ru I es, is l ost, an d t here can
be again entered correctly, by means of any writing, any matters
which were in such book, the court may cause its clerk to have such
matters re-entered, and such entries shall huve the same etTect 2lS the
original entries.

~~t

~ ~r.: ~::~·.

Digitized by

Google

Cu. 130.J

823

EVIDENCt.

1:3. Where anvJ such book ' or anvJ book containing the record of A,·.
ts 1R6.1. P· :r..
II«!. ch. JtlO.
wills, deeds or other papers, or where any paper filed in a clerk's t:! Grutt, en.
otllce is lost, the clerk in whose office such book or paper was, upon
the production to him of any original paper which was recorded in
the said book, or any attested copy of the record thereof, or of an
attested copy of anything else in such book, or of any paper so filed,
shall, on application, record or file the same anew. The record shall
show whether it is made from an original or a copy, and how the paper
from which it is mnde was authenticated or attested.
Such record
shall have prinut focie the same effect that the record or papers for
which it is substituted would have had.
14• If ' in anv~' cause ' the orizinal
papers therein ' or anvJ of them ' Avts
!86.'J, I'· :r..
i::,
l~J. ch. 100.
or the record for or in· an appellate court, or any paper filed or connected with such record, be Jost, the court wherein the case is, or in
which, but for such loss, it would or ought to be, may docket the
same, and on affidavit of such loss, the cause may be proceeded in,
heard and determined, upon an authenticated copy of what is lost,or
proof of the contents thereof: or if the cause he in an appellate court,
upon a new record made up from the records and papers of the court
below, and certified hy the proper officer; or, in case the record and
papers, or any part thereof be lost or destroyed, the court below
may, upon application of either party, upon reasonable notice to the
opposite party, supply such record or part thereof, from the best
evidence before it, either documentary or parol, which may he used
in the court of appeals for the same purposes that the original might
he. The court may, however, at the instance of either party, or in
its discretion, require new pleadings to be made up in whole or in
part, and the plaintiff, instead of proceeding as hereinbefore provided for, may commence and prosecute a new suit for the same
matter; and such new suit may, if the former suit was in due time,
be brought within one year after such loss, notwithstanding the expirution of the time within which suit must otherwise have been
brought.
If a cause has been decided and the originnl papers therein
have been lost, the court by which the ease was decided, on affidavit
of such loss, by some person interested therein and who was a party
in said suit, may re-docket said cause, and upon motion of said nfflant, and after reasonuhle notice to all parties interested in said cause,
shall supply such lost papers or parts thereof, hy authenticated
copies of the sume or proof of the contents thereof, and the papers
thus supplied shall have the same effect as the papers for which they
are substituted would have had.
15. Where any book or pnpcr is obliterated, defaced or injured so ltl.
as to he in whole or in part illegible, or is destroyed or carried away
and concealed, or is in the possession or control of armed rebels or a
public enemy, it shull he deemed lost for the purposes of this chapter.
1 G. For any services of the clerk under the twelfth section of this Id.
chapter, unless rendered necessary hy his own neglect, the court shall
allow him a reasonable courpensution, which shall be chargeahle to

Digitized by

Google

824

[CH. 130.

EvmENdE.

the county.
For recording anew any will, deed or other paper, the
clerk shall have the same fees as for the original record, to be paid
by the party on whose application such new record is made.
For replacing, as aforesaid, the original papers in any cause, or the record
in an appellate court, or supplying papers lost in cases decided, the
costs and expenses shall be ascertained under the direction of the
court, and adjudged against any party or parties in the cause, or
divided among them as the court may, in its discretion, determine to
be equitable; and so, also, when new pleadings are ordered .
Acts 186.1, p. 37.
17. Any person desirous of proving the contents of any paper filed
IB'i'O, ch.
ch. 8.'l.
'
' any book
1882.
100.
in a c l er k 's oftice, or anyt lung
w hiic h was o f recorc I in
3 Rand, 167.
therein, may, if such paper or book he lost within the meaning of
this chapter, present to the circuit court of the county where such
paper or hook was filed or kept, a petition specifying with reasonable
certainty the nature of the paper or record, the contents of which he
desires to prove -nnd what persons may be affected by such proof.
Reasonable notice of the time and pince of proceeding on such petition shall be given to the parties interested.
Such notice may be
served as prescribed in the first and second sections of chapter one
hundred and twenty-one of this code. If any person who may be
affected by the proof be an infant or insane person, or if it affect a
married woman in a case not relating to her separate property, a
guardian ad l item shall be appointed to attend to the case on his or
her behalf.
Whereupon such court shall make an order referring
said petition to one of the commissioners of the court, who shall take
proof of the contents of such record or paper, and make report of
same with the evidence taken by him, to court.
Said report shalJ be
filed in the office of the clerk of said court at least ten days before it
shall be acted upon by the court, when the court may confirm or recommit the same or make any order in relation thereto which may
be necessary and proper.
If said report is confirmed by the court,
it shall be recorded in the book where the original paper was or
should have been recorded, or if it was a paper on file in the office,
shall be filed away where said {»lper was or should have been filed,
and such record or paper, when so made, shall in all cases be prima
facie evidence of what is stated therein, and after ten years from the
confirmation of such report, shall be conclusive evidence of what is
stated therein.
37·
.~~
1
&t
18. Such court may, however, without notice or the appointment
1~~;.
IMS:!, ch. 160·
of n guardian ml litem, proceed on such petition in accordance with
the preceding section and with like effect. Provided, That any persoo whose interest may he nttccted by the proceedings under this
section, or who shall have been proceeded against hy publication, or
Arti. 188'.!. ch, the personal representative of any such,
shall have the same rights,
:~iA,r)·• Laws ns to a re-hearing, that may he allowed hy law to non-resident de!\i':;,/,. ~t. fcndnnts in actions at law or suits in equity.
~ .1;,:·i•:/i'~:
Nrcord.~ mul 11.flia luml.·s 11ul nf tl,il( Stntr.
~\\,·.\~~;,.3fb. rn. The records and judicial proceedings of any court of the

Digitized by

Google

CH. 130.]

EVIDENCE.

United States, or of any state, territory or district, attested by the
clerk thereof, with the seal of the court annexed, if there be a seal,
and certified by the judge, chief justice or presiding magistrate of
such court, to be attested in due form, shall have such faith and
credit given to them in every court within this State, as they have in
the courts of the state, territory or district whence the said records
came.
20. All records and exemplifications of office books kept in any
JBg?, ch.
public office of the United States or of a state, not appertaining to a2.st~,ry'i1
Laws
l. s. V· 947.
court, shall be evidence in any court or otllce in this State if attested i\~·.",~1~·. ~i.
by the keeper of the said records or books and the seal of his office~~::~:~:
annexed, if there be a seal, and certified hy the presiding justice of
the county or district in which such office is, or by the judge of a
court of record in such county or district, or by the governor, the
secretary of state, the chancellor or the keeper of the great seal of
the State, to be attested in due form, and by the proper officer.
Such certificate, if given by the presiding justice of a court, shall be
authenticated by the clerk or prothonotnry of the said court, who
shall certify, under his hand and the seal of his otllce, that the said
presiding justice is duly commissioned and qualified, or if the said
certificate be given by the governor, the secretary of state, the chancellor, or keeper of the great seal, it shall be under the great seal
of the State in which said certificate is made.

s:

~f

Foreign dccd«, pow,•r.'l of aflorn<'y, pollcie« of insurance, rte,
21. ~~very deed or power of attorney executed out of this. State, i~~t· 11182. ch.
the acknowledgment or proof of which is certified so that it might I Ha114I. 456.
ti I,d1th 513.
he admitted to record under chapter seventy-three of this code, and
every policy of insurance, charter party, copy from a record in any
foreign court, or from a register of births and marriages in any place
out of the United States, if it be attested by a notary public, under
his seal of office, that such policy, charter party, record or register,
was made, entered or kept in due form according to the law of the
pince in which it was made, entered or kept, and that such copy is
true, and the official character of such notary be certified to by any
court of record, or the mayor or other chief magistrate of any county,
city, town or borough, or under the great seal of the state, kingdom,
province, island or colony in which such notary may reside, shall be
evidence in any court in this State.
Cnmpf'f,·ucy of
(.\!4

to persons d1nrg1•d

11:it11,'.'l8t'S.

with 1'.rinw.

*

S.·4' ch. la2. f44'C. 19. I

,\Ns

l8R'.!,

ch

22. In any civil action, suit or proceeding, the husband or wife of::~\\'. ,.11• so.
any party thereto, or of any person in whose behalf any such action,
~T."
suit or proceeding is brought, prosecuted, opposed or defended, slmll :~ ~~:: ~:~:
be competent to give evidence the same as any other witness on be-:~
1
half of any party to such action, suit or proceeding, except that no~•">
t1:i:!.

!1 ~~: t::

:t

~r ~.~ .-:.,1.
,:a.

--1 \\ . \ I. 61.
~·
N. Y. co,I,· nf pt1K',t.•1lim•. p. 7M to i71. ~ :~. 3911. 8th 1•1litio11. (rorn whieh i :?'..? 1111d 23of
~~:.~:a.~thi,i l'111L111t•r ILt1• lllllillly l1~k1•1l.
Sc•c• 11),;11 lht• c•a,w,; c•ilt•t) ill till' 111111',; to ,-11jtJ ~i,c•. ;lilt :MJ. iu 32 \\'. \'II. j,1
which tlwy ar,· jmJicinlly eoustrued by ll1•• c1111rt~ or :,; . Y.
· u.
·

;i

Digitized by

.

Google

[CH. 130.

B2S

husband or wife shall disclose any confidential communication made
IlY one to t I ie ot h or <l urmg
.
ti ierr. marriage.
.
~~:1
23. No person offered us a witness in nny civil action, suit or pro! t•;).~~·. ~-. ceeding shall he excluded by reason of his interest in the event of
~~~i'2. the action, suit or proceeding, or because he is party thereto, except
as follows: No party to any action, suit or proceeding, nor any per~ ~t.-. T'Ji. son interested in the event thereof, nor any person from, through or
?.,kt· v». :.17• under whom any such party or interested person derives any interest
~~~~-n.88.148. or title by assignment or otherwise,
shall he examined as a witness
:~ 'k'"~;l~\. in regard to any personal transaction or communication between such
003.
witness and a person at the time of such examination, deceased, in19 W. \'11.7'8.
21 w. \'IL. tl3'.?. sane or lunatic, against the executor. administrator, heir at law, next
:!3 w. ,. u, 6:-IO.
,l
•
'
•
h
:?4 w. ,·11. 01.i".!. of kin, assignee, legatee, nevtsee or survivor of sue
deceased person
~ w, v». 376.
I assignee,
.
.
.
H ut
m. 5;11.
or tie
or -committee
o f sue h .msane person or I unatic.
~ ~h\:'i~t. this prohibition shall not extend to u.ny transaction or communication
~
;i
•
• t
.
h err
· at l nw, next o f
ne1o.W · Va. -ll:?. as t o w luc· h any sue I 1 execu t or, arnmms
rator,
Act.. 11168" p. 10•
1~1. ch.~-

~r:·;~~-

: ~r r::
~ ~~:: r~·. ~-.
t~·.

~ '~~:. '~\t1i9• kin,

assignee, legatee, devisee, survivor or committee shall be examined
on his own behalf, nor as to which the testimony of such de236•
494·
ceased person or lunatic, shall be given in evidence.
Mts I™. p. 8.",.
24. No person shall be incompetent as a witness on account of
I~..!. ch. 160.
race or color.
llow wil11t'SS('R compdl,·d lo tnt,fy.
!~.!. ch.
25. A summons may be issued, directed as prescribed in the second
section of chapter one hundred and twenty-four, commanding the
officer to summon any person to attend on the day and at the place
that such attendance is desired, to gi,·e evidence before a court.
grand jury, arbitrutors, umpire, justice, surveyor, notary public, or
any commissioner appointed by a court. The summons may he issued,
if the attendance he desired at a court, by the clerk thereof; if hefore a grand jury, hy the prosecuting attorney or the clerk of the
court, at the instance of the prosecuting attorney; and in other cases,
by any person before whom, or the clerk of the circuit court of a
county in which the attendance is desired; or, if it be desired before
a justice, by such or any other justice. It shall express on whose
behalf, and in what case, or about what matter, the witness is to attend. This section shnll he deemed to authorize a summons to compel attendance hefore commissioners or other persons appointed hy
authority of nnother state, hut only in case they be citizens of this
State, and the summons requires the attendance of a witness at u
place not out of his county.
,\1•ts 11<7'.!-:t ••h.
21>. When it appears hy affidavit or otherwise that n writing or doc111.
IAA.!. f'h. 160.
urnent in the possession of any person not a party to the matter in
~.w. ,·a.~i.
controversy, is material and pmper to he produced hefore the court,
or any person appointed b_y it or acting under its process or authority.
or any such person us is named in the preceding section. such court.
judge or president thereof in vacation, may onler the clerk or the
said court to issue a suhpu-nu ,/,,,.,·.'( /1·,·11111 to compel such production
at a time und place to be specified in the order.

~\\'.

\'a.

Digitized by

Google

Cu. 130.J

821

EVIDENCE.

27. If any person, after heing served with such summons, fail to~~~
nttend to give evidence or to produce such writing or document according to the summons, the court whose clerk issued the summons,
or if it was not issued hy the clerk of a court, the circuit court of
the county in which the attendance is desired, or a judge of such
court in vacation, on a special report by the person or persons hefore
whom there was a failure to attend, on proof that there was paid to
him (if it was required) a reasonable time before he was required to
attend, the allowance for one day's attendance, and his mileage and
tolls, shall, after service of a notice to, or rule upon him to show
cause against it (if no sufllcient cause be shown against it) fine him
not exceeding twenty dollars, to the use of the party for whom he
was summoned, and may proceed by attachment to compel him to attend and give his evidence at such time and place as it may deem
fit. The witness shall, moreover, he liable to any party injured for
damages.
28. If a person, after being served with such summons, shall 1<1.
attend and yet refuse to be sworn, or to give evidence, or to produce
any writing or document required, he may by order of the court
whose clerk issued said summons, or of the person before whom he
was summoned to attend, be committed to jail, there to remain until
he shall, in custody of the jailer, giv~ such evidence or produce such
writing or document.
29. Any person before whom a witness is to be examined may Id.
administer an oath to such witness.

t882, ch.

]11 taprf'/,, rs.

30. Interpreters may be sworn truly to interpret, when necessnry.

I<l.

Of affidarits and deposition«.
31. In any case in which an oath might be administered by, or an~\·. ,·u..t6i.4il.
affidavit made hefore, a justice, the same m~y he done by or before a
county commissioner, notary puhlic, or a commissioner appointed by
the governor, or by a court or the clerk thereof; or in case of a survey directed hy a court in a case therein pending, by or before the
surveyor directed to execute said order of survey.
An affidavit may
also he made before any ottleer of another state or country authorized
by its laws to administer an oath, and shall be deemed duly authenticated if it be subscribed by such officer, and there be annexed to
it a certificate of the clerk or other officer of a court of record of such
state or country, under an official seal, verifying the genuineness of
the signature of the first mentioned officer, and bis authority to
administer an oath.
[Bla. I. That any judge of this State, whether a judge of a cireuitwr- 1877.ch.Mt.
court or of the supreme court of appeals, may administer any oath
that is or may he, lawful for any person to take, including oaths of
office, and also may swenr any person to an aftldnvit, and administer
an oath to any person in any proceeding, J
i~;t' l8k'!, eh.
3:!. In any suit an affidavit that the witness or party resides out f/ti.'i;~~:

Digitized by

Google

828

[CH. 130.

Ji}vmENCE.

of this State, or is out of it, shall be prim« fa,·i,~ evidence of the
fact although such affidavit be made without previous notice.
Where
anything is required by any statute to be published in a newspaper,
the certificate of the editor or publisher, or affidavit of any other
person, shall be admitted as evidence of what is stated therein as to
,\ct-. I~'.!. ch. the publication.
J"f~·i1?h401.426.
B3. In any pending case the deposition of a witness, whether a
f1L1.•hd1 ~. 219.
' ·
l le ta k en in
.
:Him11. 2rn.
party to t l ie suiit or no t , may, wi"th on t any comrmssion,

~,tt~!~/~6.
~'~~-

or out of this State by a justice or a notary public, or by a commis.

\;~;·p· sioncr in chancery, or before any otllccr authorized to take deposi-

~·,1

~;i:::. t;~·;1;",~!- tions

in the county or state were they may he taken, and if certified
of the signature of
such certificate.
Ads 188'..?, ch.
34. On affidavit that a witness resides out of this State, or is out
mo.
IO w. v». 677. of it in the service thereof, or of the United States, his deposition
may be taken by or before any commissioner appointed by the governor of this State, or any justice, notary public or other officer authorized to take depositions in the state wherein the witness may be,
or if the deposition is to be taken in a foreign country, by or before
such commissioner or commissioners as may be agreed upon hy the
parties or appointed by the court, or if there he none such, by or before any American minister, plenipotentiary, cl111rg" d' offaires, consul
general, consul, vice consul, consular agent vice deputy consular
agent, commercial agent or vice commercial agent, appointed by the
government of the United ~tates, or by or before the mayor or other
chief magistrate of any city, town or corporation in such country or
any notary public therein. Any person or persons taking such
depositions may administer an oath to the witness and take and certify the depositions with his official seal nnnexed.and if he hnve none.
the genuineness of his signature shall he authenticated by some otfi.\(·t~ IAA-..?. 1'11. cer of the same statcsor country, under his official seal.
11111.
1~ <irntt. flit!.
;m. Reasonable notice shall he given to the adverse party of the
:!II.,\: :\l.:'l:lll.
4 '.'lunr. :r.1.
time and pince of taking every deposition; and in a suit in equity a
I Rlll1tl.:-!r-..",.
r. lfan,t. t•Jft deposition mny he read if returned before the hearing of the cause,
11 l.1•t!!h :l\l:I.
aw. v«. 4fl:.!. although nftor an interlocutory decree, if it be as to a matter not
~"7. thereby adjudged, and be returned before a final decree.
:..'7 w. "11• sro.
~6. A deposition in n case nt law taken on such notice under the
j~~'t IAA"!. «h. three preceding soot ions, may he rend in such case, if when it is
:~ f!,:i~,.~t· offered, the witness be dead. or out of this ~tntc;, or one of its judges,
J ::~::::: ~fi1. or in any public office or service, the duties of which prevent his attending the court, or lw unable to attend it from sickness or other
infirmity. or lw out of the county in which the case is pending, Uut
when the only ground of rending a deposition is that the witness is
out of the county, on motion to the court, before the commencement
of the trial it may, for good cause shown. require such witness to
attend in person.
A•·ts I~.! ... ti.
:r;. Wlwn a deposit ion has heon filed, if not rend on the trial by
100·
the party taking it, it may he rend hy the other party.

r:: :t

:..'9

w. under his hand, may be received without proof

:~ r ~:: :

h'\/,.-1:'.i;t'·

Digitized by

Google

Ca. 130.]

Evmasca.

829

38. In any case wherein there has been a judgment; decree or or- J<l.
der from or to which an appeal, writ of error or supas,·dms has been.
or might be allowed, a deposition may be ~ken for any party to such
case, or for or against his or her husband or wife, personal representatives, heirs or devisees in like manner and by such persons as is
before prescribed for pending cases; and it may be read in any future
trial that may he directed, if the same could properly be read, had
there been no such judgment, decree or order.
lfo1r fr."fi111011.11 ma;,1 b,, pt'1'JH'lwttnl.

3!l. A person desirous of perpetuating the testimony of witnesses Id.
1.
•
l .e penr 1·mg .m re l ation
.
as to a matter, w h ether
a suit
t h ereto or not, I100.P1lt. .\: Ht>Kth.
may file with a commissioner in chancery of a court wherein, if there
were a hill to perpetuate the testimony, such bill might be filed, a
petition stating such matter, and what persons may be affected by
the testimony.
Whereupon the commissioner shall appoint for proceeding on the petition a time and place, whereof reasonable notice
shall he given to the persons who may be so affected.
If any of
them he an infant or insane person, the commissioner shall appoint
a guardian ml Iitrm to attend on his behalf, who shall be a practicing attorney in this State.
At such time and place the commisaloner
shall take in writing, the evidence of any witness adduced in respect
to said mutter hy the petitioner, or by the person so affected.
He
may adjourn from time to time, and shall return a report of his proceedings, with the testimony taken by him to the clerk's office of the
court hy which he was appointed, and such testimony shall have the
same effect as if it had been taken on a bill to perpetuate testimony.
Such court may make such order as to the costs as may seem to it
right.
Allouimu:« to 11·it11,: s:srs for attendance.
40. A person atttending any court or other tribunal, under a sum- Act .. 11!66. p. 12.
1147i. ch. 9.
mons or recognizance as a witness, shall receive one dollar for each IAA'~. ch. 100.
day's attendance and five cents per mile for each mile necessarily
traveled to the place of attendance, and the same for returning,
besides the tolls at the bridges and ferries which he crosses or turnpike gates he may pass. On bis oath an entry of the sum he is entitled to, and for what, and by what. party it is to be paid, shall be
made ; when the uttendance is before either house or a committee of
the legislature, by the clerk of such house or the chairman of such
committee', and in other cases by the clerk of the court or other
tribunal before which, or by the person before whom, the witness
attended.
A witness summoned or recognized to attend in several
cases may have the entry made against any one of the parties by
whom he is summoned, or for whom he is sworn as a witness, but no
witness shall he allowed for his attendance in more than one case
at the same time. But no compensation shall be allowed to a witness before a grand jury. This section shall not apply to witnesses
before justices of the peace.

Digitized by

Google

830
Am,.
•~.
ieo.

A~is tAA'.!.
ICIO.
1~11. eh. 84.

[Cil. 130.
41. The sum to which a witness is entitled shall be paid out of the
treasury in any case of attendance before either house or a committee of the leglslature, and in any other case in which the attendance
is for the State except where it ii, otherwise specially provided.
In
all other cases it shall be paid by the party for whom the summons
issued. The payment shall be on the certificate of the person required
by the preceding section to make the entry. The certificate shall express by letters, and not by figures the separate amounts to which
the witness is entitled for his attendance, traveling, tolls and ferriages which he may have to p:1y, and the nggregatc thereof.
.No
clerk or other person authorized to make such entry, or give such
certificate shall become interested by purchase in any claim payable
out of the public treasury, which by law he is authorized to certify.
And it shall be the duty of such clerk, as soon as possible after the adjournment of any court, to make out a list of all entries made on
behalf of witnesses attending for the State, whose fees are payable
out of the treasury, and certify such list to the auditor. Any dispute (before or after issuing the certificate) between the witness and
the party against "horn his claim is made, as to its justice or amount,
may, when the case is in a court or before a justice, he determined
by such court or justice.
ch.
42. The court may restrict the taxation in the costs for witnesses,
to so many as may he deemed just. No entry for a witness shall be
made against a party recovering costs, after execution has issued for
such party; and in no case shall there he an entry of a witness for
attendance at a term of court, after the adjournment of snch term.
On the last day of every regular, adjourned or special term of a
court, the clerk thereof shall make up a full and complete list and
statement of all costs, expenses and fees allowed at such term, payable out of the state treasury, stating specifically in letters, and not
hy figures, the separate amounts to which each person is entitled for
nttendanco, traveling, tolls, ferriages, services or otherwise; and
giving the style and character of the action, suit or proceeding in
which such costs, expenses or fees were allowed; which list and
statements shall he examined by the prosecuting attorney of such
court, or i11 cnse he should fail to net, hy some one appointed by the
court for the purpose; and if approved and signed by him as correct,
shall he entered in full in the law order hook with the other proceedings of said court.
Such entry shall then he read, corrected
where necessary, and signPd by the judge or presiding officer, as in
other cases is prescribed by law. Within two days after the adjournment of any such term, the said clerk shall make and certify two
copies of said list and statement, one of which he shall forthwith
transmit by mail or hy some snfe moans to the auditor; and the
other he shall deliver or transmit nt once to the said judge or prvsiding otlleer. ~aid judge or presiding- otllcer shall, at or before the
next term of said court compute said copy with the original entry
thereof in the order book, and if found correct, shall also certify
ch.

Digitized by

Google

CH. 130.]

831

EVIDENCE.

said copy und transmit it to the auditor.
But if said copy he incorrect, he shall correct the same, and then certify and transmit it as
aforesaid.
If such clerk or prosecuting attorney, or other person
appointed as aforesaid, falsely make or transmit as aforesaid, any
false list, statement, copy or certificate provided for in thia chapter,
knowing the same to he false, he shall be guilty of felony, and upon
conviction thereof shall be confined in the penitentiary not less than
five nor more than fifteen years; and any officer or person required
by this chapter so to do, who shall wilfully fail or refuse to make or
certify the lists, statements, copies or certificates provided for in
this section, within the time prescribed by law, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall be fined not less than
fifty nor more than two hundred und fifty dollars.
Xo assignment or
transfer of any costs, expenses or fees mentioned in this section
shall be valid unless the same be in writing, endorsed on or annexed
to the voucher issued therefor, signed by the person entitled thereto,
and duly acknowledged before an officer authorized by law to take
acknowledgments
of deeds or other writings, or attested by two
witnesses who shall state their respective names and postofflce address,
Production of documcut«.
43. In any case at law, upon a party making affldavit that a par- .\,·.1~ •~. ch.
ticular book of accounts, or other writing or paper, is important for l::O-w. v«. :!i-t,
him to have in the trial of his cause, he may procure from the clerk ~iv. vs. :.?66.
of the court in which the action is pending, a subpoena duce» ft-cum
requiring any party to the action to appear before the court on a day
named therein, and bring with him and produce before such court
such book of accounts, or other writing or paper, as is specified in
such process, in order that the same may be used as evidence on the
trial of the action; and unless the person upon whom such process
is served shall, at the time specified therein, produce what is so required, or show to the satisfaction of the court that he has not under
his control such book, writing or paper, or unless, from an inspection or otherwise, the court is of opinion that the character of the
book, writing or paper is such as should not he used as evidence on
the trial of the action, the court may attach him and compel him to
produce the same.
It may also, if it sec fit, set aside n plea of such
person and give judgment against him by default, if he be a defendant, or, if he be a plnintitl, order his suit to be dismissed, with costs,
or if he be claiming fl debt before such court or commissioner, disullow such claim.
Effcc! of party's alnH'11<·1· for srrcn !Jf·ars.
44. If any person, which shall have resided in this State, go from
,
f
. I
·
l .\,•b I&!:!, ch.
nm l <. I o not return tot I re :-;tatc or seven vears successive v, he sha I 1111J.
•
.
l
~.
..
I
l
•11
.
I >c presume; It o l Je c l em1 , many case w 1crc111 1 us < 1 eat 1 s m come m 12w.v11.21:i.
14 w. v». 843.
question, unless proof he made that he was alive within that time.
45. If the person so presumed to he dead he found to have been .\rts !882. r-h.
living, any person injured by such presumption shall he restored to 100·

Digitized by

Google

832

[CH. 131.

COURT DOCKET.

the rights of which he shall have been deprived by reason <>f such
presumption.
E.r,dutli119 ecidcurc f,,r w,1111 of prtrlic1tl,,r.'f r~f claim or ,l,f,,11,·r·.
Id.
-!ti.
ln any action or motion, the court.may order n statement to be
18 w. \'n. 41:l
..'6 W. v a. :?00.
filed of the particulars of the claim, or of the ground uf defence ; and
if a party fail to comply with such order: may, when the cnse is
tried or heard, exclude evidence of any mutter not described in the
notice, declarntion, or other pleading of such party so plainly as lo
give the adverse party notice of its character.
Ecidcuc« ;,, 111itig"ti1111 of clflm119es.
Acts Hiit.!, ch.
47.
In
any
action
for defamation the defendant may justify by
160.
I v». (':is. 176. alleging and proving that the words spoken or written were true, aud
I:! L .. igh 466.
J3W. \'ll.il.
after notice in writing of his intention to do so (given to the plaintiff at the time of, or for, pleading to such action) may give in evidence in mitigation of damages, that he made or off ered an apology
to the plaintiff for such defamation Lefore the couuuencement of the
action, or as soon afterwards as be had an opportunity of doing soi
in case action shall huve been commenced before there was an opportunity of making or otf ering such apology.

'CHAPT.lm CXXXI.
s,,, ..

(A,- nmvnded n nd r•·- .. ,rn,•tt•,I.

OF THE COl7RT J)Of'KET;
JUDlBIESTS

AND

INQ(;}Ry
DEf'Rf:F.8

St:l'.
t l / or thl' court dockvt 1111•1 order
c111"'" ar« hvurd.

~- i

4
l•'or rortllf•r !nw to
nn th .. snhJ•'l't 7.
of this ehupu-r. 8 .
""" Codt• \'11. 9
1860
·h
1- In
1-'or
rpf:.~: 11.
1•11crs, >'l'I! iwe-12
tlous,
to
15.

'otl;"~

in whlch

0}'

\d,-

181-1'!. ch. 1:!I>.,

l>A:\IA(IJt:s;

01-' Tlflo:

I St:('.
I 116'~· I1· 1

~ Power or court t.o huvv trial bv iurv nr rn.
itu uirv or ,11111111,.,.,.
• J •
I
•
~
.
.\nll'n1lnwnt.,- of pluruliuici< at lrinl.
:JO.
~ .1
.
lh I of PX~1·pt1011"; "ri:unwnt of vouusvl : :!I.
11011-"1111'

Ill

1

t,'OR

r r

t
l!IIWII

RY .n:RY;

THUL

f'Ol'.RT

:

"

.\SJ)

:\IO'.'i'EY.

1 1 r I I r I
w ru l' u ,. l'l .

(11 ,wtinu on eontrn<'t :t:,:nin"'t '"'" nr
mor« dd,~n,lants, what ju<l::1111·111 mn}
h•• r1·11d,.l't'd.
\\'lrnt ju<ll!llWIII 11111~· h1· 1'1114'1',.d :1;.::d11st
1t1·r,-01rnl r•·\1r,•,1•11t11ti1·P. ,\••.
\ rt,•r llft1•1•nt I da v of t"r111 ,·mirt 11111\
• ruuk«
J.!l"IH'rn I t•rtll'r al hm:i111,r t•:\t"l"U
t ious. ,\,· .. Crom whnt t ime.
0-

I
... Rerirvmeut
\

of jun·;
.

,· .. rdict : 11,•w trial.

Of the court dock»! Hnd order i11 irliir/1 ca.srs n rr /1l'ttrd.

1. Before every term of a circuit court, the clerk shall make out
a docket of the following cases pending, to-wit: Pir.~t. Cases of t he
J~\tr~!1!: ~~'00. State ; and, Sn:owll.1J. )lotions and actions, in the> order in which the
~'.a.J6. notices of the motions were filed, or in which the proceedings at rules
~'k.\~\.1~9. in the actions were terminated, docketing together as new cases
those not on the docket at the previous term.
He shall, under the
control of the court, set the cases to ccrtuiu days; and the docket
shall be called and the cases on it tried or disposed of for the term
in that order, except that the court may for good cause take up nny
case out of turn.
9~'.'" tsrJ.a. ch. 2. Before every term of a circuit. court the clerk shall make out a
l~. ch. 190.
separate docket of chancery cases in which there are motions. and of
other chancery cases which have been set for hearing as to any party.
or which the court is to hear upon a plea, demurrer or exceptions
Acts ll(7'.!-a, ch.

~. ch. 1~.

; ~r ~:~:

Digitized by

Google

CB

131.]

833

TRIAi,.

to an answer, and during such term every cause on said docket shall

be called and disposed of.
3. • Any party.J askinze, the court to hear a case mav.J' if the court re- .\("l,1AA:!.
l'..?O.
fuse to hear it, have his application spread upon the record, with a a Lviuh 343.
statement of the facts in relation thereto.
:\ch

ch.

181'.!·3, ch.

!'01cPr of court to lut c« a trial l,,11 jury, or i11<J11iry of damage.,.
~~5. ch. 70.
4 . ..:\ circuit court wherein is pending a chancery case, in whichi~;;,~\\:l':!{14•
there is such a conflict in the evidence, as in the opinion of such ~t \;r~1t~/~;,.
court, to render it proper, may direct an issue thereon to be tried in A:s~. ~- ~.449•
such court or in any other circuit court.
Although the verdict on rn ~~::
such issue may be set aside, there shall be no new trial thereof, but:~~~'.
the court may proceed to decree as. if no issue had been directed. : ~~:
No issue out of chancery shall be directed in any other case. Noth- 22 w. Va. 1.
2:i W. Ya. 57.
ing in this section contained shall be construed to conflict with any~ w. Va. 344.
27 W. v», 7TJ.
of the provisions of chapter seventy-seven of this code.*
:tl ">
r.1H.
33 \\ • \ Ii. 559·
,.
,\ '
.
.
f
'
h
h
b
a. "'"' ctrcuit court may in any case he ore it, ot er t an a c ancery
case, have an issue tried, or an inquiry of damages made hy a jury, it's t8i'.?-:I, ch.
and determine all questions concerning the legality of evidence and
:;I::~other matters of law which may arise. Upon the trial of any issue or:~;~:~;::
issues by a jury, whether under this section or not, the court may on M w. vs. ta.,.
motion of any party, direct the jury, in addition to rendering a genenal verdict, to render separate verdicts upon any one or more of the
issues, or to find in writing upon particular questions of fact to be
stated in writing. The action of the court upon such motion shall
be subject to review as in other cases.
Where any such separate
verdict or special finding shall be inconsistent with the general verdict, the former shall control the latter, and the court shall give
judgment accordingly.
6. At the next term after an order at the rules for an inquiry of .\l'ts 188:!, ch.
damages, the same may be tried and a final judgment rendered therein, ~~1,·. v». lH7.:k>6.
t.
If a con tlmuance be s3W.\'a.:!6.53
un I ess goo d cause r.oe s h own f or a con timuance.
w. v«, 474.
asked hecanse of the absence of a witness, an affidavit must be filed, fi ~·: l!: fl.
if required by any party opposing, setting forth, in addition to other
matters required • in order to obtain a continuance, , the name of the Acts 188'l, ch.
witness and the testimony he is expected to give, and the afflant must 1~.
11 W. Vu. ll.%.
if required by any opposing party. submit to cross-examination
in 1~ "> \:a ~.
h
l .
lti \\ . \ a. a~-·
-open court upon the matters set forth 111 sue atflc ant.
rs w. Va. :!74.
.
.
I
if
.
I
.
.
eo
Va. 4."iO.
7 . Tl re court, 111 an action at aw, 1 ncit ier party require a Jury, :!3 W.
w. v«.
4i:! •
.
f
h
l
f
l
h
f
·
1
l
h
l
l
.
h
:!4
w.
v
I~. 5.,t.
or 1 t e le enr ant as m cc to appear, s a asoertuin t e amount ee w, v».
106.
· t'tr
· I eri to recover ·in ti ie ac ti1011, if
t h e p I am
1 ts entit
1 any, anc 1 ren d er 3'Jw. "1~·504·
judgment accordingly.
Ameiulmeut uf pfrwling.-. at th» trial.
8. If at the trial of any action there appear to be a variance be!118'.?. ch.
tween the evidence and allegations or recitals, the court may, if in
J~~".!i.

i~: ~:

r~i". =:
t:: ::t·

,:u.

f:1:

~~t

s:

~r~u

__
-l('all:!:!5.
•As lo t h« powrrs of tlw court tlir,·1~ti11s.: 1111 is,-11 ... am) of I lw ,·,111rt in which it i,- trivd, fl I 'all fi2U.
,.,.,. I \\'11,ih. Ir.I\. :l31:\; I ('all &r.?. soo. ~ t 'nil ::111\1: r, (u ll n:r.: I II.,\
:\I. a-1i-: 211. ,\ :\1. fl:!fi: I 3 H1111tl. 448.
)I unt. :ri:1: :! ){ 1111 f. 412: 4 :\l 1111 t, 4:iO: :, )I 1111 r. ~I~: ti '.\I 1111 r, :.'07. :!·tf>. :Jlol.',. 4f)IJ. 464: I Rn ml, ~9: ~ t:rntt. ~4._180.
~ Ruud. 109: Giluwr 11'>9: 3 L1·i,:h M'i: a L•·i)!h Wi: IU I,l'ii,:h :'100: a Gtn t t. ;,lf,4: 6 Grut t , f,82;' (:rail.~?·
8 Gran, '.!Hi.
9 Urntt. vu.

Digitized by

Google

834

[CH. 131.

TRIAL.

3W. Va. 26.
16W. \'11. :!4.">.
:!8 w. v«. 5.'1.1.

34 W. Vu.:!!>:!.

its opinion substantial justice will be promoted thereby, nllow the
pleadings to be amended, and if it be made to appear that a continuance of the cause is thereby rendered necessary, such continuance
shall be granted at the costs of the party making the amendment.

Bill of t'.ccrptio11.~*-orgumntlof cou.usel-s--non-euit.
H. In the trial of a case at law in which a writ of error or 11,per~.
ch. 1~1
st·,fra.'f lies to the court of appeals, a party may except to any action
1:· or opinion of the court and tender a bill of exceptions; and if the
5· action or opinion of the court l:>e upon any question involving
the
,'f:,1/1'i: :i~· evidence or any part thereof, either upon u motion for a new trial or
t,'.'i~~ :ff· otherwise, the court shall certify all the evidence touching such ques3 r. .. ii{th 196.
tion, and the judge shall sign any such bill of exceptions (if the truth
g Rn11, . 30. 347.
I Roh. rni1.
of the case be fairly stated therein), and it shall be made a part of
:!Urntt.193. 3H.
·
6 nrntt. :!Ill.
the record in the case, and the whole of the evidence so certified shall
8 Grutt: 5:19.
.
•
•
10 uratt. 2. .
be considered by the court of appeals, both upon the application for
ea:t.?.
w.v-tt,.
s.eo.ess,
· o f t h e writ· o f error or .rnper:w, l eus, If any JU
. d gc re f use
496.
an d h earmg
:.."D W. Vu. 407'. to sign
'
h
}
lll
f
.
h
b
ll
l
sue )l
o exceptions,
e may e compe ec to d o so, l>Y
the the court of appeals by nuuulumus; in which case the bill of exceptions shall be a part of the record, to the same extent as if it hnd
been signed by the judge at the proper time.
Any party may avail
himself of any error appearing on the record, by which he is prejudiced, without excepting thereto.
The court may, in vacation, within thirty days after the adjournment of the term, make up and sign
any bill of exceptions and certify the same to the clerk of the court,
who shall enter it upon the order book of such court, anti any such
exceptions so made in vacation shall be a part of the record and have
the same effect as if made in term time.
A,,11- 188:!. ch.
10. ~ ot more than two counsel shall argue in a civil case on the
120.
:!.:; w. Vu. 078. same side unless by leave of the court, and the argument of each
counsel shall not occupy more than two hours, unless by like leave.
The court may in its reasonable discretion still further limit the time
of argument on each side.
Ac, ... 1882, eh.
11. A party shall not be allowed to sufl'er a non-suit, unless he do
~:.1iob. 485.
so before the jury retire from the bar.
. \cts t87".!-a, ch.

~~l~:;r
: . i~;:~':u,;:;.;~
t
J

.-\cts 188'..!, ch.
l:!O.
00 W. VI\. 679.
:!3 w. v». 300.
Acts

f~>;,.\

ch.

1~.

~1. 361.

~ ~t ~;~: :ii.
9

w.

s:

°'

Va. 15·
1882,

ch.

~i',:·.~r:i.~.

t3Gmtt.:!10,3.')4.
·IM.
:! W. \'11. 90.
4 w. v». 693.
33 \\'. \'u . .fOi.

R,·tirfincnt of jury; ccrdict and nrio trial .
12. Depositions or other papers read in evidence may, hy leave of ...
•
the court, he carried from the bar hy the jury.
IB. When there are several counts: one of which is faulty, the deIendant may ask the court to instruct the jury to disregard it; yet if
entire damages be given, the verdict shall be good.
14. The jury in any action founded on contract, may allow interest
on the principal due, or any part thereof, and in all cases they shall
find the aggregate of principal and interest due nt the time of the
--•3 W. \'a. W. 3.'36. :-!RB. :194. 4~: 4 w. Va. 6·.r.: I>\\'. \'11. 18. ll!'i. MO. M2: I\ W. Vu. 111: 7 W
\'11. '..!:r.?. 71fi: 8 w. \'11. 63. :!1,,. :?:,II. :t.lQ: If w. \·11. 13. 1\111 . .t:lk: u w. v». 14: I:! W. \'n. t. ne,
11'3. ~:
13 w. v». ~lo.'.!.~. ~15: 1-1 w. v». 157: 15 w. \'1~. m: 16 w.
an. m. !'~. rn. ;ll;:
18 w. v». 3itl. a.'l9: ~J w.
-Ii:?: ~I W. \':i . .JH(I. illll: :!:.! W. ,·u. 381. 7i'V: :!J W. \'n. ~:
:IN
W. \'a, 186. i4i. i;x';: es w.v«. tlli8: 26 w, \'11. 48: :!ti w, \'u. ~l: :..~ w. ,·11.MI: 30 W. \'11
5!!: 31 W. Vu.~.
Ma. 450, 164, t;;JJ: 32 W. v». t~: 33 w. v». w;': a4 W. \'a. r.m.

,·11.

,·a.

Digitized by

Google

CH.

131.]

835

TRIAL.

trial, after allowing all credits, payments and set-offs, and judgment
shall be entered for such aggregate with interest from the date of i~~s 1~. ch.
the verdict.
4 c1111m. 367.
I Rand. 3U.
15. In any ei vii case, the court before which a trial by jury is had, 3 Ran.i. a:!.
,
•
•
,
6 Hanel. 142.
may grant a new trial, unless it he otherwise specially provided.
A 2 l,•·!l!h -m.
•
5 f,f'l){h 5!JS.
new trial may be granted, as well where the damages are too small
•
•
011 thr- suhjP1'.t
ns where they are excessive.
Not more than two new trials shall be or m-w trhils.
·
h
*
ir••tu•ralh,
Nt't'
grante d to t lie same party m t e same cause.
root 11ot1:.
16. When there is a recoverv on n bond conditioned for the pay- A1\ts 1~. ch.
ment of money, as well as in ~11 cases where a judgment or decree is :~iunr. 1;5.
_..1
f or t h e payment o f money, it. s l m II lre f or t he ag- 5e M1111r.
rem l erecl or mane
Munr. -194.
11.
gregnte of principal and interest due at the date of the verdict if !~?~/'Jii3.
there be one, otherwise at the date of the judgment or decree, with l~ ~~::
interest thereon from such date, except in cases where it is otherwise:~}:~::::~:
provided. t
1 7. In an action on an annuity bond, or a bond for money, paya- Acts l88'.!, ch.
l~le by installments, where there are further payments of the annuity, l~~,11~1i. 91.
or further installments to become due after the commencement of the~ ~;i,dfi!i: -lf>9.
action, or in any other action for a penalty for the non-performance:
of any condition, covenant or agreement, the plaintiff may assign as ~ ~\~:~~~: r:t
many breaches as he thinks fit. If there be judgment for the plain- l~
tiff', on a demurrer, or by confession or by default or nil dicit , he~ w. v«, 31;.
may so assign after such judgment. The jury impaneled in any such
action shall ascertain the damages sustained, or the sum due by reason of the breaches assigned, including interest thereon to the <late
of the verdict, and judgment shall be entered for what is so ascertained. Prociiled, That if the action be on such annuity bond, or a
bond for money, payable by installments, 'such judgment shall also
be for such further sums as may he afterwards assessed, or be found
due upon a scir«fucius, assigning a further breach. Such scirc faci,,.~
may be sued out from time to time by any person injured, against
the defendant or his personal representative, and for what may be
assessed or found due upon the new breach or breaches ussigned,
execution may be awarded.
.\t•ts ll'!tt. ch.
18. Every judgement or decree for the payment of money, except~~~-uur. ~io.
· o th erwise
'
-IOI.
w 1 iere 1it ts
provu' l ccl b y l aw, s lin 11 l rear 'interest f rom t h e :!, Rawl.
1t,11ul. 4011.
date thereof, whether it be so stated in the judgment or decree or: :~:~i·~«:.· t:_·
10 L•·iirh tl:!9.
not.
16 W. Va. 6H.
19. In an action founded on contract, against two or more defend- Acts l88:!. ch.
ants, although the plaintiff may be barred as to one or more of them, ~~-,rnct. 313,4-16.
11:11 a,.
"et he rnuv
have judgment
against am·
other or others of the defend- 9II 1•1'L1•1~h
J
J
I'">
~
606.

t~: i~:

;1 ~r ~::~: :r

~~::::r :::·
~t t~: :;~:

~~\.~83.

*fl L,•1i.:h 230: i L<'h!h tl(~: R l,c•il!h 4i9: 9 J,,.il!h 4:!".!: 6 Grall. :!19. :l!ii: 8 Grntt. :?Oi. 63i: 15~
lirntt, l:!'t: I W. \'11. :-18. 1''8. 3.16. 3.'3i: 2 w. \'11. 73: 3 W. v«. :.'9. 195: ·t W. \':1. 681: fl W. v«. O W.VH. 41:'i.
3>lll. ;~I. 57a. !~:!. f.!!'l: tl w.v.c
ru. 1~: i w. \'11. 54. 00.'i. ilft: ~ w. \'11. 201. ~I: 9 w. V11. 33, 12 W. Vn. 297.
IW. 114: 10 w. Va. 19. I !fl. IM: 11 w. \':1. HI: 12 W. \'11. I. :r.t 116. 114'-i. 712: rn w. v». I. 1!'>6. :!00.
1!\8: II W. Vu. r.i. 8,-iO: la W. v». :.?119. tll-t: !ti W. v«. :JO'i': 17 W. \'11. fit!:!: 18 W. \'n. :JO,'i: IQ lfi W v» 103
W. \'11. Ml: :.!U
v». H:!: :!I W. \'11. 2:t 5'11). 70(}::!".! w. \'11. 4-4. 2'.!I. i'i'1l::!J W. v», ~JO. 41Jl:24 18
11:
W. v«. :J.">4. fl(l,'l, f\.'l7: :?:, W. Va. ?.!6. -12,.lliR. t\9'J: ee W. \'a. '!74. 576. 1;.;.q; es w. v». :u: :.>o W. :!".! W. Va. 537.
v«. 5'.!>C, 659. rtt, 31 w. \'11. :!'.'O, 36.1, ..~. 4-1:!, 4a9, 6;,9; 3:J w. \'n. 18i: 3'.J w. v». ~.: 34 w.
\'11. 38. 6!!, 15o.
667.

w: \'

w.

477.

m.eeo,

t'J.I W.

v».

344: 25 W. Va. 288; :.'6 W.

v«.

·ti:!: ~ W. \'n. 314.

Digitized by

Google

836

[CH. 13~.

DECREES OF SAJ,E.

.-\<'I~ 11*1:.!. cit.

l:!I).

1,1,

Hl(irnt.t.1>-1.

ants against whom he would have heen entitled to recover if be had
sued them only on the contract alleged in the declaration.
to. A judgment or decree against any person, as the personal representative of a decedent, or committee of a convict or an insane
person, for a debt due from such decedent, convict or insane person,
may, without taking t\11 account of the transactions of such representive or committee, be ordered to he paid out of the personal estate of
such decedent, convict or insane person, in, or which shall come to,
the hands of the representative or committee to be administered.
When the court enters of record that if he had prudently discharged
his duty, the suit or motion would not have been brought or made,
the judgment or decree, so far us it is for costs, shall be ordered to
he paid ont of his own estate.
:n. .\. circuit court after the fifteenth day on
of its term, may make
a general order allowing executions to issue
judgments or decrees
after ten days from their date, although the term at which they are
rendered be not ended.
For special cause it may, in uny particular
case, except the same from such order, or allow an execution thereon
at an earlier period.
0

CHAPTRR
()I,'

cxxxu.

n•X'REEi-- n•· 8AJ.F.; ORlH:RS 1-'0R •:x•:c:TTINU
INO TlWSTEES;

AND THE RESER\.ATION

IJEEl)S OR APPOISTt,'OR IN.'ANTS.

Si::t'.
St:c
I. l 'ourt may 11,•,•rt••• sah• of 11roiu•rt~: 11po11
ti \'I' It 111nl rvd 1lol111 rs. to IM· at! v•·r1 isc·J
what
t1•r111s: may uppom t "Jwdnl
in nt-wsi,l\p••r.
., Wht-11110 sp ..d11I corumL•sio1wr appoint·
,~u111111lssio1lt'r, who shall fl't'l'i\'" 110
1uon,•y hPfor,• l!i\'illlZ bond: Jlf'lllllt.,who to rn11kt• suit-.
For r,,rnwr 111 w
«n : 11t·1111lt~ 011 d,•rk for t11kinl! i11~11r3. FP•' or commissio111•r or 01H1·1·r nu,kini.:
nu t h« ><llhj•·ct
su l«.
ll«'i1•11t ,-1°1'.uril.y:
hb ,Juty to app•·nd
or tlii., ,·hap1 .. r.
I Order appointin:z c•nmmis~iolll'r to,.,, ••
,·,•rt itlt•11t" of bond a ud i<1•c11rit\ J.!l\"1•11.
~··•.• ( 'ocl,· Vn, la. W hPII prnp .. rty \'111111•.J nt
f11111,Jr,·rl
/ ,·111t• c!Pt-<I. or ,.;uh,-titutil11Z tru,.;tf't' In
1~. ,·h. li8.
clollnrs or more, ,-al•• to I><· atln•r1i,-.,,1 to '
pbw,• of 1111" who !ms divd : wtwn
For nt hor r•·f1·r·
i11 11Pw,.p11p••r: 11,h·,.r1i,-1•111••11t lo stn t».
trust mft.\' lw PX<•1·11tt-cl by ,,..rso1111I
0. .
fl•pr,•,..c-11t11tivt-.
what: 11ri1•1• tu lw p11id fur ,-111111•: how
l i1111~.
J11n1l,-, 1·lit11111••11t for t11x,·s to h,• 11d7. / Hh:ht of i11fa11t,. to show cnus,• lll,!11in,.;t
vr-rr ised for ,:ah•: whnt to tw clon•• II\
(
1lc•t'.fl•••: pff1•1'.l of rl'\"l'r:-111 of dt•t·~· Oil
. \t:t,- 188:!. ch.
H. ,
p1m·hnsn unrh-r it.
slll'rilf in such ,:a~": ,,al,·" 1111<1,·r tr. (fi .
14:!.
wh--n prop•·rty v11l111•1J nt mor,." tlilln
ti L•·iizh llla,r,.q.",,
11 L•·i:.:h )ol.1.af,9.
1. A court, in a suit properly therein, may make a decree or order
I:! L,·i!.!11 :r.o.
f or the
t
.
t1 (;rn11. -H.
sa I e o f property .m any part o f t I ie ~tut(!,
and may < 1·trect t he
la(;ra1L
:~.
I
l
f
l
I
1·
l
it may deem I ,est;
I\ w. Ya.Hu,;. sn <' to 1c or cas 1, or on sue 1 crec it nm terms as 1

•·II.

n,·,·

,., .. ~,,~. ~··p

1 l~-)· :\t~~)w ~r·. \.1;.. 1~'i:t

and it may appoint u special commissioner to make such sale.
Xo
spocinl commissloner appointed hy a court shall receive money under
a decree or order until he give bond with good security, before the
}14."" · v«. Ho. said court or its clerk, and any special commissioner violating the
:~ ~~:);ti~1. provisions of this section hy receiving money before executing bond
\!~;.~~ •. as aforesaid: shall be deemed guilty of a contempt of court, and sbslJ
~\ll\·a. see, be punished by fine and imprisonment or either, at the discretion of
t:iR.
the court.
lf the clerk takes bond with insufficient security, he and
:!O W. \"11. ~.
•
i~•.
tlll'J..
•• his securities upon his otllcinl bond shall be responsible for any Joss
.I w. \ a. 1.4.
tli.'-1. :!:t3. 6.'ili.
or dnmnge sustaim-d hy nnv 1wrson injured thereby. And no sale
f.._._\11.
\
:~s.:
1113• shall he nmde 1,,· sue1; co~missionC'r
until such 1~nd and security
:!:{ W. \'11. I~..!.
•
~
•
O.'i.'>.
has been given and approved by the clerk i and every notice of such
1

:r/. t;{ii\01.
:! ~r

Digitized by

Google

CR.

132.J

DECREES OF

SA r.s.

8:-l7

sale shnll have appended to it the ccrtificute of such clerk that bond :rnd~t· \'a.:io. :.li!J.
security has been given by the commissioner as required bv law.
esw. ,·n..a.'ll.a."10.
'
~
~·· ial.
[la. 1. That whenever a court shall hereafter decree the sale of es w. ,·a.f>t. 41:.!.
4i9. a.'1>1. ~6.
real estate, if it appear to the court that such real estate is of the ~w.,·11.16i.:.u,.
es w.v I'(('{,
value of five hundred dollars or more, it shall prescribe in the decree :..'9\\'. ,·,twu'-11.
. l .111 a newspaper, IJY t b e eomnus-mw.ve.sss.uu
. 4"· Wll.
t I mt sue l 1 sn I es h n ll 1 )e a<1 verusec
sioner or person appointed to make the sale.
It shall always be ad-~,,. Ya. ~'9,.
vertised in a newspaper published in the county, if one he published ssw. ,·n.:..w.oo.,.
therein, where the real estate to he sold is situated. In the adver- j};;'.'' Hr..!-:t ch.
tisernent the commissioner shall state the time, terms and place of:.i,1 w.v«. ,JO.
sale, together with a description of the property to be sold: Proeid.«!
. luurecer, That nothing herein shall he construed to limit the power
of the court to direct -sales of lands to be advertised in newspapers
where the value may be less than five hundred dollars, or where no
newspaper is published in the county where the real estate to be sold
is situated, then in some newspaper having a genem.1 circulation in
the county: .t11d pmrid,,d f11rf/,,,,., That not more than five dollars
shall be paid for any ad vertiscmeut that does not vxceed two inches
square of space for the four successive insertions. If the newspaper
published in the county refuse to do the work at this price, then it
shall he lawful to publish the same in any newspaper in the judicial
circuit and if no paper in the circuit will do the work at this price
it shall he lawful to publish the same at the front door of the court
house of the county, nnd three other public places near the land to
be sold.
11. A list of all lands returned as delinquent for taxes shall he .\,•ts tH,:!-3. d1.
advertised by the sheriff for four weeks prior lo the sale thereof, in t:.i.
some newspaper in the county where such land is returned delinqueut.

111. Within three months after the sale of land for taxes, by the Id.
several sheriff's of the State, if the lands or any tracts or parts of
lands shall be bought by individuals, the sheriff making the sale shall
add as part of the expenses of sale. an equnl per centum on the taxes
clue nnd for which the lands were so sold as will he sutllcient to pay
the expenses of advertising the full return of all sales made to individuals, for the period of eight weeks: and the said sheriff shall, within
suirl throe months, advertise the said full returns of such sales in some
convenient. newspaper, and shall alwuys advertise in a newspaper published in the county, if one be published therein, and shall specify in
such advertisement the time within which the original owner will be
entitled to redeem, and beyond which the right will cease.
I, .. Any sheritf', or other oftlcer proceeding to sell under a writ of !ti.
Ji,.,.; .fa,·i,r.~ or ,·,·11ditiu11i ,,.rpn1111.~. if the properly he of the value of
five hundred dollars or more, shall advertise the sale for the time req u ired by law, in rr newspaper published in his county, if one be published therein, the cost of which advertisement shall not exceed the
price prescribed in section one of this act. J
2. Where no special commissioner is appointed for the purpose, a

Digitized by

Google

838

[CH. 132.

DECREES OF SALE.

decree or order of court for the sale of property shall he executed
hy the sheriff who attends such court, unless the pince of sale be out
of his county, in which case the sale shall he by the sheritf of the
county wherein the place of sale is. Any sheriff or other officer, receiving money under nny order or decree, shall pay the same as the
court may order; and if he fail so to do, he and the sureties in his
olflcial bond shall be liable therefor.
a. For the services of commissioners or officers under any decree
or order for a sale. including the collection and paying over of the
proceeds, there shall not be allowed any greater commission than
five per centum on the first three hundred dollars received by them,
and two per centum on all above that sum, unless the court other-.
wise order.
And if a sale he made by one commissioner or officer
and the proceeds he collected by another, the court under whose decree or order they acted, shall apportion the commission between
them as may be just.
(Lnler 11ppoiuti11y ,;0111mi.'isiow·r

in plaa

cf

to e.crcutc denl, or ·"ul,.<ifitutiug t rnstrc
our who lot« dii·d; ichcn trust IIIO!J l)(· c.cecutcd l,y
personal rtprnwutotin:.

6 (iratt. IOi'.
:.::i W. v a. 18"..!.
:!tSW.Vn. I.

-1. .A court of law or equity, in a suit in which it is proper to decree or order the execution of any deed or writing, may appoint a
commissioner to execute the sume ; and the execution thereof shall
be as valid to pass, release, or extinguish the right, title, and interest of the party on whose behalf it is executed, as if such party had
been at the time capable in law of executing the same and had executed it.
"~:rs 188:.!. ch. 5. In a suit in equity in which it appears that a trustee has died.
~4ii. ,\: ~1.11. 1:!. although the heirs of such trustee he not parties to the suit, yet if his
4 Ha111l. IIH.
·
l ot h er persons intereste
·
d 1...
•
1wratt. 111.
persona I representative
anr l tie
oe partres,
:i
w
·
vu.
!'l.1t1.
l
t
·
h
.
h
I
f
hi
h
1-1 w. vu. rrr, t ie cour may nppoint anot er trustee m t e pace o
un w o h as
died, to act either alone or in conjunction with any surviving trustee,
as the case may require; and in any case, when a trustee, or where
there is more than one, all the trustees in any deed of trust, shall have
died or removed beyond the limits of the State or shall decline to
accept the trust or refuse to net, any person interested in the execution of the deed, may apply by motion to the circuit court of any
county in which such deed is recorded, which may appoint a trustee
or trustees in the place of the trustee or trustees named therein; and
the trustee or trustees so appointed and accepting the same, shall be
substituted to nil rights, powers, duties and responsibilities of the
trustee named in said deed: Procid a], The grunter in said deed, his
heirs or personal representatives, the creditor, or surety, or other
persons intended to be secured thereby, or their personal representstives, shall have ten days' notice of such motiou.. the mode of serv.
ing which shall he as prescribed in the first und second sections of
chapter one hundred and twenty-one.
l>. The personal rcprescntuti ve of a sole or surviving trustee shall
11 l,l'i:.:h 3-t:!.

Digitized by

Google

Ck. 133.J

839

lNJUNOTIONS.

execute the trust, or so much thereof as remained unexecnted at the
death of such trustee ( whether the trust subject be real or personal
estate), unless the instrument creating the trust otherwise direct, or
some other trustee be appointed for the purpose by a court of cbaneery having jurisdiction of the case.
Rigltt of infonf.,; to shou; cause agai11.,;f decree, 1:f}"n:f '!t' rrrc rsn] of ,If.crrr 11po11 p11rcl,,,..wr 1111d,·r it.
7. 1t shall not he necessary to insert in nny decree or order, n;t'!:;l .. t1,: :r.6.
provision allowing - nn infant to show cause against it within a certain 65L1·i,d1
Ha1111 r>O-t
Ill}.
time after he attains the age of twenty-one years.
But in any cuse e L•·hd, 11111.
•
•
to L1·i;.d1 -1(11>--7.
in which, but for this section, such provision would have heen propN, .to<i~a~t. flW.
. f ant may, wit. lnn
. six
. mont I is a f ter attammg
. .
t I re in
t I ie age o f twenty- ~ w.v». 1.
one years, show such cause in like manner as if the decree or order
contained such provision.
This right of an infant shall not be affeeted by the fourth section.
8. If a sale of property be made under a decree or order of a court, 10 1,1•h.:h. 31;.
l
I Hoh. ~I.
nnd such sale he conflrmec 1 , t I rough such (_ ecrec or order he after-~ uratt. rnR. t!l\l.
war d s roversoc l or set astide, t I ie tit. I e o f t I re pure l1:18cr at sue I 1 sn l coa<irutt.110.
<ir11tt.11r.. :w.
1.
.
rnI t. :till.
s I in 11 not l >e a ff eetec l th ercoy
; l m t t h ere may I ie rest,. t uuon
o f t I ie 91r,< iuratt.
r1M.
proceeds of sale to those entitled."

CH.APTER CXXXlll.
()}' ISJUSCTIOS8;

BILLS

or axvrsw ;

ANll APPOJ NTJ[EST Of,' RJo:CEl\'F.ltS.

I St:c.

Sr.c.

} c'~!.~_~•t::t:

1•1111~11~j:,.~·i~~t'::1~~:li~t~:~~;:j l!ift.
IH•for;. 11hti~i11it1J.! judl!IIWIII.
:'. :,.,.injuuef ion to ln- 11w11r1l,•1l uuh-s»
court tw "ntb,fl,·ll h) afllduvlt or otlwrwi-, ... or plninlilf's 1·11uit,·.
-1. Whnt ,:ourt lo hnvr- juri,..,liction.
5. or l,iJls uf rr-vir-w.
6. G,•rwrnl j11ris1lwtio11 or jllll~Ps in uwurdin~ injuncuou-.
8. Pcw,•r to n-strutn n-mova l or prop,.r1~·
out 1•f t lu- Sl11!t•.
U. 'l'n.wh:.,t •:.1,•rk jllll:!I'·,. or1IPr r('r iujuu«t1011 11,l11r1•1•t1·1l.
.
10. Injunction bond: it,- co1111ition.
11. Surt•ty in ft•rth<"oming hornl. whn t ht•
ma., ,lo f!•r his proh•t•tio11.
1·• OrilPr or ,Jts,..olut1011: tl:1111:ll-'""' tlwr,.011.
1:t Obmi,-sa Inf hill.
11. Clt•rk to furnish ... tutr-uu-nrs of 1111.nil•"
to 1111' <·r,·dit of >-Uib.
,\:1i ••

If,.
lff.
Ii.
18.
10.

eo,

21.
2".!.
:!3.
2-t.
~,.
~'ti.
:?i.
~.

<'.•:t:~,\,'.~_"Y

nppoinl !!PIIPrnl rP<'Pi\'l'r: Iii~
lkeo•iv,•r';; pow,.r ovvr ,-tock~ 1111.t ~··•·uri·
t u-s.
C'ollo>•~lio11 a ml invvst mvnt or Iuuds.
Hi,- a,·,:011111111111 rPport lo court.
Liuhifitv for ruu,1,.,
R,·c .. ivn's ho111l.
ComP4·111<11tio11.
J>•·1111lti•·s.
Wlwn int,.rf'sl j,. pnyn hlo : wlu-n ,•ompo11111l1•1l.
,
n .. ,.,·h- .. r,-or ,•ot!rl,-; )o,-t ff'o'nrd or pap,•r: l~l~)r,f1'.).rJ~~r.1:~.~~
how r,.,.,.,v,.r"
11c,,01111t,; ar,· ,.,,111.. c1
.
•
and tlwir ho111I,. 1•\a111i111•1l.
of 1 I~•~•· 1rnpl~·r.

t ..r:::
~-~;·

Wlwn r .. quir••<l !111,.?in• now bo111l..
~~
"'.1
{ 'h•rk,- lo kvvp r,,,,,.i\·,·r·,.. hook" n ml in·~·., ·,.11' .. ~
I
d1•\ tlll'lll.
r
r
r
f",.,.,. .. r 1·1,.rk,- u nd 1•0111mi.... ;;1ow·r".
•·m~t·s. ""t' ""<'·Wlwn
;;p,•,•ial r1•1•,.j\·1·r" 11111~ lu- u p- lions.
(1nit11Ptl.

Wh,·11 c,rnrt t,, i11f1•1:fu·,·: in ,dint co11d i11j111u:tion <'11.1;,· pr,,c,·,·d ....
1. An injunction mny he awarded to enjoin the sale of property~\\'.
set apart as exempt in the case of a husband or purent, under chapter forty-one, or to protect any plaintitT in u suit for specific property,
pending either at law or in equit.y, against. injury from the sale, removal, or concealment of such properly.
•I W. \'n. In'>: 10 W. \'a. l:'.U: Iii\\'.

,-a.,,;:

Ill W. \'n. :191\: ?..! \\'. \'ii. 3:,6:

,·l\.flH.

:r.1 W. \'n. iO-t.

:SoTt-:-Of 111j111wti1111" to r .. ,..1r11i11 e"IJ,·,·li .. 11 or ta:\•'"· s,.,. ·t \\'. \"11. nW.: 7 W. \'11. :l'.!!1. ti~I.
!I W. \'11. 1112. ~Ill: Ill W. \'a. fei: 111 \\'. \'a. IOS: '!I\\'.
\":L. 007: ~I\\'.
\'a. t\l;,; :.'ti\\'. \'n:
.Jkk: ~\\'.Va.~.
Tu rP,..frai11 tro>,:pnss on r1•11I Pslnl,., !-1•,•j \\' \'n. ~!3: 14 \\'. \'11.11:r.: :!OW. \'n. lin: 1-1 \\'.
\"n. tffflol: :.>tlW. \'11. tlo:l .
. \l.{:1111,.;t 01,.•ni111! ,-1r1•1•t><. s,•,• \l \\'.
\"11. '!In: lll \\'. \'u. ;mi: :!3 W \'a, !!11. -fil. -1:,4.
To ttlmt,• 11u1;;1111ct•s, '"'''WW. \'11. ~8; :H \\'. \'a. fHU: I~ S. I·:. I{. 11)8.',,

Digitized by

Google

840

[Ctt. 1:13.

INJUNCTION 8.

~ ::~J =:t·~

2. .A creditor, heforc obtaining a judzment or decree for his claim,
may institute :rny suit to avoid a gift, conveyance, assignment, or
transfer of, or charge upon, the estate of his debtor, which he
tr, <ir1111. tr,. :n. might institute after obtaining such judgment or decree, and he mav
•t"J_rl
..
i, ,r. v«. 'ii,. in such snit have all the relief iu respect to said estate, which hr
19
w · v». iX. won 11
· 1 elI to a f ter ohtammg
· .
:.'ti w. ~·11. ~1.
< b· c entit
u [u:l gment or < l ecree for the
~,,.,n.l6 .. m. c 1.
I r,
l
. I I
aim w hi
IC 1 ue may ,e entit et to recover.
r, W. \'a.!\i9.
:~. ~o injunet ion shall he awarded in vacation nor in court in a
n w. \'11. M:?.
):.! w. \'11. til\7. case not ready for hearing.
unless the court. or judge he satisfied hy
rr w. \'11. :i\llt
attlduvit or otherwise of the pluintitt" s oquity : and any court or judge
may require that r<insonablc notice shall he glven to the adverse
party, or his nttorney-at-luw, or in fact, of the time and place of
moving for it, before the injunction is uwurded, if in the opinion of
the court or judge it be proper that such notice should be given.
11 Grall. 6'.!fi.
4. .Iurisdiction of a bill for nu injunction to any judgment, net
J:l w. v». il'III.
:!".! W. v». HI.
or proceeding shall be in the cireuit court of the county in which
the judgment is rendered, or t lu- act or proceeding is to he <lone, or
is doing, or is apprehended, and the same may b<• grnntod to n
judgment
of a justice in like manner ruul with like etlect as to other
fl '.\lunf. a:..'9.
lnUrntt. fill'<.
judgments.
:t w. v«. Ofl'J.
9 W. v». mi!,.
Of uu, ,~( rrriru ..
It W. \'11. :r.1.
1:1 w. \'21. :!:(),
5. A court or judge nllow ing a bill of review, may award an inIll W. \'11. i:?4.
ir w. v», 113.
But no bill of review shall
Ill w. \'11. 1117. junction to the decree to be reviewed.
fl ~:,i:.· ~fd: he allowed to n final decree, unless it he exhibited within t hree years
404·
70~·a.
next after such decree, except that. an infant, or insane person. or a
~~'"· v». "!'i'R married woman in a cuse not rvlnt ing to her separute property, may
208·
{;~"·
Ya.
exhibit. the same within three y<'ars after the removal of his or her
\!:.·. disability.
;lfll\.
G,,,,,,,.,,/ jnri.~,li,·ti,111 ,~( j11d!/'','i i11 ,11r11rdi11.,1 ,'11j1111di,,1,s.
:i.1 w. \'11. 4'...'tl.
1

4•

:! 1 ... i1.d1 K-&.
:i L••hth 2\111.
x 1. .. id1 ue.
I:? (irnt1. i4.

~r

J1}\

;:.; ~r ~t~.
10 l,1•i:..d1 O,'l.'l.
I l{oh. tll.M.
:.! W. \'11. 41H .

.. w. v». ) In.
!~\\'.

\'11. lliti.

:.! 'luur.

t'.!3.

,\ :t::::::~~.

414•

!0,~;.r~.\:: r~1:

tL J1~ver)· judge of a circuit court shall have a general jurisdiction
in awnrding injunctions, whether the judgment or proceeding en
joined he in or out of his circuit, or the party against whose pro
ceeding tho injunction he nsked, reside in or out of the same.
7. \\'hen a circuit court, or a judge thereof shall refuse to awunl
an injunction, a copy of tlu- proceedings in court, and the orig inal
papers presented to the ju1fgp in vacation. with his order of rofusa l,
may hl• presented to a judg<• of the supr<>me court of uppeuls, who
may thereupon award the injunctiou.
/',,,,.,.,. Ill ,.,.sfrflill

:.! '.\luur.

111~.

rnn11r,1/

'((

,,,.,,,,,.,.,.'!

o u]

ti(

l/11·

St,,t,·.

R ~\. court or juclge awur<ling an injunction to restrain tbe n•moYal
of t.lw prop<•rty out of the ~tat<- muy r<•quir<• hond to h<· gin•n heforc su<'h offi<'<'I' and in such pl•11alty as it may <11rcd, condition<"l to
h:l\'(' tlw property forthcomin~ to nhidP lll<' fnttm• ortln or dt'<'T('(> of
thl• eonrt. nll(l. unlPss such hornl hp ~in•n. may ordt•r thl' otti('t•rst·n··
in~ its pr<,c•Pss. to tnk(• posspssion of tll<' propprty. mul kPt•p it uutil
the hond hl· gin•n, or until the further or<ll•r of the court.

Digitized by

Google

CH. 133.J
To

841

INJUNCTIONS.

clerk judg,:,,. order fnr i;~juudi1111 is d ircctcd .
H. Every order (awarding an injunction) made under the sixth or
seventh section, shall he directed to the clerk of such circuit court
as has jurisdiction under the fourth section, uud proceedings thereupon shall be us if the order had been made by such court, or the
judge thereof.
l11ju11ction /,owl.
10. An injunction (except in the case of any personal representa- ~\~;~1
tive, or other person from whom, in the opinion of U1c court or judge,~ t'..~·i~t ~~awarding the same, it may he improper to require bond) shall noq
take effect until bond be given in such penalty as the court or judge~};1~·~~1\/::~-"'awarding it may direct, with condition to pav~ the judgment or deeree "4 w.
w. v,,. t.
v«. :!'.!. :u'.!.
(proceedings on which are enjoined) and all such costs as may be n w .. , ..... ~•
11 \\. \ a. _,6.
awarded against the party obtaining the injunction, and also such 1; w. \'11. aoo.
·
l
. !!'2\\'.\'n.31i.
c l nmages as sha II be incurrec or sustained hy the person enjoined m ~ w. vu. M.
1'
1'~
·
·
·
1
I
d
·
h
f
l
d'
·
·
f
:to \\'
n . .w.t.
case t lie mjunctton Ut:' uisso veu, an wit a nrt ier con 1t10n, 1 a:n
w.· \'\'11.
44.
h
.
b
d
l
•
.
1
·o.
1
,-1
a
..
w.,·11.(i:tt
f ort coming on ins Jeen gtn•n urn er sat JUl gmcnt or necree, to
indemnify and save harmless the sureties in said forthcoming
bond and their represontntives, against all loss or damages in consequence of said suretyship ; or if the injunction he not to proceedings
on a [urlgment or decree, with such condition as the said court or
judge may prescribe. The bond shall be given before the clerk of
the court in which such judgment or decree is,' und in other cases hcfore the clerk of the court in which the suit is wherein the injunction is awarded. lf the bond be not given before the summons
is issued, the clerk shall endorse thereon that the injunction is not
to take effect until the bond is given, and the clerk who afterwnrds
takes the hood shall endorse that it is giyen.
11. .:\ny surety in such forthcoming bond or his personal repre- ., .. ,,. 11<>1'.!.,·h.iK
sentative, may move for and obtain an order for other or additional
security, in like manner us a defendant in the injunction may do.
u,/111f

~f1~:_i.;~.

:;~!7:'. ~:

[Irdrr of di.~s,>l11ti11u-,lfln1tl.<Jf','i

tlcerco»,

12. When an injunction to stay proceedings on a judgment or de- .\rt.~ 1Ai0.•·h.:u.
' l Ii1:Bo I ve: 1 . w h o 11 y or in
' part, t liere 8 I ia 11 1ue
•
e Ii·11:t(.
ii'.
cree f or money ts
< 1 ecree. 1 -1J l'!li·!.
L•·hd•
.
h
.
l
1,.. i:.rh nt'I.
to t h e party I 1a,·mg sue judgment or < l ecree, c I amages, .in 1·ieu o f .Ill- II1 Hol,.
11:1.
.
ti :,(iriatl. 111:(.
teres t , n t th e ru t e o f ten per cen t um p<'r annum f rom t lie time . re 1:, Gru r t.. r.iH.
injunction took effect, until such dissolution thereof, on the amount f1'~~:\~;.1,~~of principal, interest, and costs due on the judgment or decree, prov». :u:i.
ceedings OD which are enjoined, and if a forthcoming bond has lx-on ~: ~~::
taken in the case, the amount 011 which such damnges shall he paid, ;f; ~L r:::f~'.:~o.
shall be the sum due on such bond.
And in all cases the court or
judge dissolving U1e injunction, shal] ascertain and enter in the decree of dissolution the amount of principal, interest, damages and
costs, including offlcers foes and commissions due on the judgment
or decree, at the elate of the dissolution of the injunction, and shall
award execution therefor ugniust the dt'fonclant in the judgmen; or
decree, proceedings on which were enjoined, or their personal repre-

~t·

Digitized by

r:: :~~:

Google

842

II

w. v».

4,H.

;~\r. v». r,;i(
:!t

.

[CH.

RECEIVEiUt

w. v«. sa

133.

sentatives, with interest thereon from that <lay till paid, and the costs
incurred by the defendant in the injunction, in defending the same
And if n forthcoming bond has been given in the case, and the same
has been or shall be forfeited, the sureties therein shall be liable for
the costs incurred by the defendant in the injunction, as aforesaid,
and, to the extent of their liability on said forthcoming bond, for
whatever sum remains unpaid, on the execut ion so awarded.
Any
Emch injunction may he dissolved in vacation, hy the judge of the
circuit court of the county in which the same is pending; hut the
opposite party must have reasonable notice in writing of the time and
place at which such motion will he made,

DiHmi,w,I ,~( uu.
Where nn injunction is wholly dissolved, the hill shall he dis1 {t~~?~'!io. missed with costs, unless sufficient cause be shown against such distl6_w. '°11• ff.n. mission.
is w. v». HJ!.
('lrrl.-R to furn is/, Rini, 1111•11/.~ '!/ monry,: lo credit of suit«.
Aet" 1~:.i.ch.711
14. lt ahull he the duty of the clerk of each circuit court to roport to such court, at the first term thereof nfter the flrst dny of .Iuly
in each year, a statement, which shall show in separate columns, the
name of the suit or other proceeding in which any money has been
heretofore paid into court, or into bank or other place of deposit, or
to any person specially appointed to receive the same under any
judgment, order or decree of such court, and which money remains
nndisbursed, in whole or in part, at the date of such report; the
date of such judgment, order or decree, the date of such payment; the amount so paid and remaining undisbursed ; the person
by whom it was paid; the person hy whom, or the hank or other
depository into which the payment was mnde ; if such money or
any part thereof, has been loaned out or remains on deposit, or
in the bands of the receiver: and if loaned out, the date of the
order authorizing the loan; the date of the loan; the person to
whom it was made, and who then holds it; if security has been given
therefor; the nature of the security; and where secured by bond or
other obligation, the penalty thereof, and the name of the principal
ohligor and his sureties. For every failure of such clerk to comply
with the provisions of this section, he shall be guilty of a contempt
of court and fined by the court fifty dollars.
A<"lK IH8'J.ch.'i!ol.
a '.\lunr. ~- 11:!.
4 '.\lunf. 490.
fl '.\11111r. :v..

rn.

('ircuit court nHt,1J app()i11t a g,•111T(II rccrirrr.
15. Each circuit court may appoint a general receiver of the
court, who shall hold his office at its pleasure, and whose duty it
shall he, unless it ho otherwise specially ordered, to receive, take
charge of, and invest in such stock or other security as the court
mny sp<>ciully order and in the manner required hy such order. all
moneys heretofore paid into court. or into hank or other place of
deposit, urul now standing subject to the order of such court, anti
all moneys !-!O paid under any judgment, order. or decree of the court.
and also to puy out or dispose of the sutne as the court may order or

Digitized by

Google

Cn. 133.J

843

RECEIVERS.

decree; and to this end the general receiver shall have authority to
check for, receive and give noquittauces for all such moneys.
R,·c,•fr,,r R po11·,,rs orer stoci:« mu] St><;uritin:.
0

16. The certificates of stock or other security in which, under the~·w. v», 61;.
special orders of the court, such instruments may be made, shall he:-!:! w · Vu. 38i.
taken in the name of the general receiver, as such, and be kept by
him, unless otherwise specially ordered; and he shall have the power
to sell, transfer or collect the same, wken ordered by the court to do
so, but not otherwise; and in case of his death, resignation or removal, his successor, or any person specially appointed by the court
for that purpose, shall have like power.
C'olfrctiou owl inreetmen! 11/ funds:
17. The general receiver shall collect the dividends and interest on
all certificates of stock or other security in which investments have
been or may be made under the orders or decrees of his court, or
under the provisions of this chapter, when and as often as the Harne
may become due and payable thereon, and shall invest or dispose of
the same as the court shall order or decree.
]Ji.~ account ol/fl report to court.
18. He shall keep an accurate and particular account of all moneys 2-t w, Va. :..'i9.
received, invested and paid out by him, showing the respective
amounts to the credit of each case in the court, and designating in
the items, the judgments, orders or decrees of the court under which
the respective sums have been received, invested or paid out; and on
the first day of each regular term of tbe circuit court, be shall report
to such court, a general statement showing the balances to the credit
of each case in the court in which money has been received by him,
the manner in which it is invested, the amounts received, invested,
or paid out since the preceding term of the court, and the whole
amount then invested and subject to the future order of the court;
and he shall, at any time when required by the=court so to do, furnish a statement of the amount subject to the order of the court in
any case pending therein.
LifllJility for f1111d.~.
rn. He shall be liable for all mo11eys which may come into his:!'14."'· v». ssr,
hands ns general receiver; and if at any time, lJC shall foil to invest
any sum of money, as required by the preceding sections, for the
space of sixty days after the same shall he,· or ought to have been
received by him, or shall fail to pay out any sum of money, when required hy the court to puy Urn same, for the space of sixty <lays after
it shall· eome into his hands for the purpose of such payment, he
shall be charged with interest thereon from the day when snch money
was or ought to have been received by him, until such investment or
payment is made unless, upon good cause shown to the court, it
shall order otherwise.
Nl'f't'iL'fT·.~ l>011d.

:rn.

He shall, at the time of his appointment, and at least once in

Digitized by

Acts 188'!.ch.i'8.

Google

,.

844

[CH. 133.

RECEIVERS.

in every two yenrs thereafter, gin, bond with good security, to be
approved by the conrt, in such penalty as the court shall prescribe,
but sufficient, at lenst, to cover the probable amount which may come
to his hands as such receiver during the ensuing two years, with condition as is required by section six of chapter ten of this code.
('urnpr·11.srtl ion.

~1. lie shall receive as a compcnsution for his services such per
centum of the amount received and invested or paid out by him in
each case as the court may direct, for receiving, investing or paying
out the same.
l',·11alti,, s ,

22. If he shall fail to keep the account, or to make out and return
the statemont required by the eighteenth section of this chapter, he
shall he subject. to a finr- of not less than one hundred nor more than
one thousand dollars, to he imposed by the court at its discretion:
and the condition of his offlcial bond shall he taken to embruce the
Iiuhility of himself and his sureties for nny such fine.
lrl1r'.11 i11ff'1'r·st i.-; poyol,/,,; ,,:,,,,,, ,·0111pr>lf11rlul.

~3. The interest on all loans made to individuals under an order
of court, shall become due and payable on the first day of .Innuurv
in each year, until the principal is paid; and unless the interest ht•
paid at the time it. becomes due and payable, compound interest shall
he charged thereon to the borrower from such time until payment
thereof is made.

R,·,·,·i,·,·1·.'1 '!l

,·,,11;-t.'I: lost rrcor«] or

1'"11,·r; /,,>1,.

,·r·("(·it"n··s «cconu!»

u rr

.~,,fllr·,/ u11d t/,,·i,· l,oud.>1 cr antin e«],

!!·l. Each circuit court at its regular term after the first <by of
.Innuary in each year, by an order entered of record, shall require
one of its commissioners in chancery, other than the commissioner
who may havo heon 'appointcd general receiver thereof, to state und
settle the accounts of all the receivers of such court, both general
und special, und of ull p<>rsons to whom any money has been loaned
under the order of the court, or who have money subject to the future
order of the court. nnrl which then remains undishursed. The clerk
of the court shall furnish to such commissioner n. copy of the order
so mude, with :1 list nppcndod thereto exhibiting the names of all
such receivers and persons.
The said co nun issiouer shall summon
such recd vers and persons, or personal ropresentntives of such of them
as arc dead, before him, and audit, state nnd settle their accounts.
and report. the same to the circuit court at its next term after sne h
order has been made; and ho shall append to the report n statement,
showing in sopnruto columns nil t.he mutters required to be shown h.,·
the clerk in tho statement mentioned in tho fourteenth section of this
chupter.
(Ip shall also cnuse the bonds of the receivers of the court,
nm l t ho horn 1:-. or ot her sPe11 ri t i<'s gi ven for any money loaned under
the order of the eon rt, to hl' produced before.• him, and shall ascertain

Digitized by

Google

CH. 133.]

RECEIVERS.

if the obligors in such bonds, or if such other securities are sutttcient,
and report thereon to the court at the times before mentioned.
JV!u·11 r,·'lui,·,·d to gfr,, 11,·u, l,,,11d.'(,
2n. The court shall examine the reports required by the fourteenth
and twenty-fourth sections of this chapter, when the same arc made
to it; and if satisfled of the correctness thereof, shall order them, by
endorsement thereon, to he recorded: and if it appear from the report
of the commissioner that any bond of a receiver, or any hond or
other security given by any person to whom money has been loaned
under its order, is insufficient, the court shall order additional security
to he given, or another bond to be executed before it, in such penalty as may seem right, and with sufficient securities.
But the execution of such new bond shall not discharge the sureties in any prior
bond form their liability for acts of the principal obligor done
previously to the ·execution of such new bond.
(.'/erl,·11 to k,·,p rrcrirer'»

hook» and il/(le.c them,

26. The clerk of each circuit court shall procure, at the expense
of his county, a book to be called the '•receivers' hook," wherein he
shall record the said reports, when approved by the court; and he
shall make an index thereto, showing the style of the snit or other
proceeding in which money has been paid as aforesaid; and the page
where any report respecting the same has been recorded; and the
said hook shall he open to the examination of any person interested
or his counsel, without the payment of any fee therefor.
}1·,·.~ of clerks 1111d rrnum] ..,.-,i11111·rs.

27. For making the report required by the fourteenth section, and .\,·t,: JS!-1.",.ch. 9.
for recording the reports required by the twenty-fourth section, said
clerks may charge, in each case mentioned in such report, a fee of
fifty cents, to be paid out of the fund in court; and said commissioners may charge for the reports under the twenty-fourth section, the
same fees allowed by law to commissioners in chancery for other
reports, to ht> paid out of the funds in court, and charged to the respective cases therein, in such proportion as the court shull judge
right.
JVl,rn s1u·ci,,l l'('('t'i1·,,,. 11111,1; /,,. ttpp11i11frd.
28. A court of equity may in auy proper case pending therein, in ""t.~ 1~2.•:!1.iK
.
fl
6 \\ . \ n , f>-",.
which the property o f a corporation, rm or person is involved, and t~ w.
4~.
.
l
f
l
l
.
.
.
f
I
a .. , ... ,.
t h ere ts c anger o tie oss or misappropriation o t re same or a mu- t.119 ''w. . \v».
w,.
. I part ti iereo f , appoin. t a specm
. 1 receiver
.
terin
o f· sue l 1 property or o f'.!::.:1 w.
w. \·a.~v«, :~1.
· • l lOIH,1:!.">W.\'n.l4K
t I ie rcn t s, 'issues ant l pro fit s th
, ereo f , or l 10. ti 1, w I 10 s l ia 11 give
:.'ti w, \'a .. ,at.
with good security to he approved hy tho court, or hy the clerk ff\."· \'n . .t:..>H,
thereof, for the faithful performance of his trust and for payingt~ ~~:: \~\:,..'fin,
over and accounting for, according to law, all such moneys as may come 6rl.">.
into his hands hy virtue of his appointment. Hut no such receiver
shall be> appointed of any real estate, or of the rents, issues or profits
thereof until reasonable notice of t he applieatlon therefor has been
given to the owner or tenant thereof.
A judge of such court in

,:a.

Digitized by

Google

8-16

Cormr,

ERRORS CORRECTED IN ~AllE

[Ca:. 134.

vacation may appoint such receiver of any such property, except real
estate and the rents, issues and profits thereof.
CHAPTJrn CXXXIV.
OI•' ERRORS ISSPFJ,'Wl1'~NT IS

AS APPELLATE

COLRT.

For Iormer luw
{'.'.1 thi,s lll~hj,·~t.
SI e CtHJt
\ a,
I~,
eh
11-11.
1' or oth .. r rt•f·
t>rl'llCPs,s .. ,• SPC·
uons,

Sn·.
l. Wl111t nrnl"!< 11111y IH• t•orrPc!t•d on motion
II rt••r not iei-.
2. .Juol~m,•nt
on ,·,111r1•ssio11, «qun l to r/.)Pas•· of r-rrnr».
3. 1 For whut •·rrors n judjrnu-ut or tkf.·r,•1•
4. \ !ihnII not h,• stay,·tl or r••\'••r,w1l.

1 H.& M.24, 201.

1. For any clerical error or error in fact for which a judgment or
· th e
cl ccree may r,ue reverse d or correc t e(l on wriit o f error corum 110 I11.~,

4 Mun!. S'ii.
I Rand. :!i.

SEC.

fl.
6.

Wh"n nror

In [udznu-nt or tlf'<•rt"t• mav
,~orr,·,~h·u I,,. court In wb ieh it wn',;
r,·ntln"d or j111fl!t> iu vncnt ion,
~" u ppou l. ,\:,• .. n llowr-d in c11i.rliwhl'rr
ju<ignwut 11111\· b,• r,•,·1•rM·d or 1un1•11tl,'<1

;1,,.

on motion.

•

: ~:::t:rl>46. same may be reversed or

corrected! on motion after reasonable notice, by the court, or by the judge thereof in vacation."
g~:!~t :: an 2. A [udgrneut on confession shall be equal to a releuse of errors
12 Gratt, M.
in the proceedings. t
~ H2~l_l 342. 3. No judgment or decree shall be stayed or reveraed for the ap.
A t~i'~t iti!i.
pearance of either party, being under the age of twenty-one years,
.
.
by
attorney, if the verdict (where there is one), or the judgment or
l \\ ash.J5,;, .~.
l \all 532.~.
decree, be for him and not to his prejudice; or for want of warrant
· · 1 iter,
·
·
· · of issue;
~ l.nll
cull, 12. ·s;.
of attorney; or f or t h e wunt o f a sum
or any misjoining
- H. ,\. M. Mia.
f
.
f
Ii
.
h
f
h
.
d
,1
h y th e
3 Munr.:JH.
or or any m orma ity mt e entry o t e JU gment or neoree
4 )lunr. -1:ll.
l
k
f
h
'
·
f
th
f
.
l.6 M1111r. -&AA.
c er ; or or t e omission o
c name o any juror: or oecause it•
2 Run.t.440. 446·
h
t
tl
I'
t
·
3 lfontl. IM. 4aK. may not appear t a
ie verx re was renc I erec I 1 lY th e num be r o f jurors required by law; or for any defect, imperfection, or omission in
f.VJ~2!~i.
the pleadings, which could not he regarded on demurrer; or for any
:!
other defect, imperfection, or omission, which might ha Ye hecn taken
l!'><..imtt.381.:m. advantage of on a demurrer or answer, hut was not so taken advnntage of.!
14 Gratt. 131.
-l. Xo decree shall he reversed for want of a replication to the anHI W. \·11. 41.
t6W. \'11.tW,.
swer,
where the defendant bas taken depoaltions as if there had been
:!!> W. \'a. 304.
:..I W. \' a. 3."ltl. a replication ; nor shall a decree he reversed ut the instance of a party
who has taken depositions, for an informality in the proceedings.
when it uppcnrs that there wns a full and fair hearing upon the merits,
and that substnntiul justice has been <lone.
:! Rund. m.
5. The court in which there is a judgment by default, or a decree
;t ~:~:::l:1~7i.m. on n hill taken for confessed. or the judge of snid court in the vaca~ l:~i.~:·. ;~·-n. tion thereof', muy, oil motion, reverse such judgment or decree, for
fi!~~,~~i.flf,.1. any error for which an appellate court might reverse it, if the follow~ ~tt,_:;~. ing sect ion was not enncted, and give such judgment or decree as
" w, \'11. •ID:-1. ouzht to he sriven. And the court in which is rendered a judgment
r, W.\'11.lUi.-l(l'J.
~
'='
t1 w. \'11.100..aon.or decree
in a cause wherein there is in a declarution or pleading, or
; \\'. \'n.6-r.l.707.
'
.
10 w. ,·!1. ·~
in the record of the judgment or decree, any mistake, miscalculation,
11 w. \ II. ere.
.
I
f
.
.
l
h
s o. -IS'.!.
or misrecita o any nume. sum, quantity or tune, w ien t c same .ts
:\¥,~~in~;~_:..>9i. right in any part of t hv record or proceedings, or when there is any
14 \\, \ II. ,.f\l. -Jfl \~·. ~·a. ii1l.
•:!-! w. \'a. tlOI: :..'9 \\'. \'11.:.. 01.
: ~~~~~~.:tJ".!.

i

fi.:.

~g~::~~.~.
':i.
t~:~~~: ~:

1

lH \\. \ 11. '..'Ill. __
~1W, \'a. lf,O, 'II\\'. \',1. :!it\: l'! \\'. \"a. l!CI. :!II. :..'9i.

al\\'. \'11. 3'.!.!19. --;.\\'.

\'11. 1~1. t.ii3: II\\'

\'a. tllll. :J(i.'J:

II W. \"a. !r.6; l'! \\', \'u. 183, fO.!:

Digitized by

14 \\. \'•. ':'4V.

Google

CH.

135.J

APPEALS

TO THE

Cotmr

847

OF APPEALS.

verdict, report of a commissioner, bond, or other writing, whereby ~}6.W, ViL. 233.
such judgment or decree may be safely amended; or in which a;\\:. "{~/~ii.
judgment is rendered on a forthcoming bond for a sum larger than~·,. v
.... , \ .
"· 133,
by the execution or warrant of distress appears to be proper, or on a~HI. . r
•
-'6 \\ . \ a. Ma.
verdict in an action for more damages than are mentioned m the 6:!8, 110.
429·
d ec ] aration
. ; or m
. t h e vacation
.
· w hire I1 any sue h )UC
· l g- '.?'/
o f t h e court in
es W.
w. Vu.
Vu. 37'.!,
mentor decree is rendered, the jndge thereof may, on the motion of
v«, t37.
any party, amend such judgment or decree according to the truth and f~ fi/R. ~.
justice of the case; or in any such case the party obtaining such
judgment or decree may, in the same court, at any future term, by
an entry of record, or in the vacation, by a writing signed by him,
attested by the clerk, and filed among the papers of the cause, release a part of the amount of his judgment or decree; and such release
shall have the effect of an amendment, and make the judgment or
decree operate only for what is not released.
~~very mot.ion under
this chapter shall be after reasonable notice to the opposite party,
his agent, or attorney in fact or at law, and shall be within five years
from the date of the judgment or decree.
6. No appeal, writ of error, or sup,·rs,·,has shall be allowed or en1
. ed by an appe IIate court or ]UC
· i ge, f or any mutter f or w hi
:!fl.
tertam
ic l 1 a s Ruud.
1,l'ii;d1 -1.!H.
. d
d ecree is
. 1·ta bl e to loe reverser } or amcnr l ecl , on motion
.
L,•11.!h 600.
JU gment or
as 11
I Ifoh. :!87.
aforesaid, by the court which rendered it, or the judge thereof, until ~a~~;1!!i..~.
such motion be made and overruled in whole or in part. And when
1.r!it
an appellate court hears a case wherein an appeal, writ of error, or ~1 '~~:.'~;,~1:ii.
superseden« has been allowed, if it appear that, either before orsince~,r. \'i&.6:?8.
the same was allowed, the jmlgmentor decree, bas been so amended, 2t! w. Va. ssa
the appellate court shall nfflrm the judgment or decree, unless there
be other error; and if it appear thut the amendment ought to he and
has not been made, the appellate court may make such amendment,
and affirm in like manner the judgment or decree, unless there be
other error.

t'i3,,.

~.'tv.'~.'~.

CHAl'TJm

CXXXV.
s .. i> Acts t~. ch. la7.)

( .\,- uun-nderl nnd rv-r-nucted.

0}' AP PEA LR TO THE
SE('.

I.
2.

counr

In what ca:-t'" tnkvu.

13.

P1•rNOIIN tlPsirit11l llt1 u ppeu l, ,\:,· .. to pr1·:wnt pet itlon, ,\:c.
3. P1•titio11 tu '"-' prP~•!ntPd within whut
t iun-,
4. ,Jmlirnwnt mnv ht• suspended. whvn.
5. Trunscrtpt o(r,·cord, ,\:c .. to h•! pr1•sPnte1I with potltlou ; not lc« to opposH,•
purty, when.
6. What
!JI.• copied in record a111l what
not.
7·

to
wt!~~,:~)1~·~~~ti.~rt~~n ! lst ;:::;.·:::t''l'

14.
la.
16.
17.
18.
1!1.

1 1•11

8.

01'' APPEALS.

SF.c.

Pvt ition for 1LJ)jwal. ,\:c .. t.o n,..si!.rns error« und ,wrtifk'<l by attorney of uppe llnte court ..
9. 1'0 whom it mny be pr1•>11•11tP1l.
10. rr a llowed. how to lw tlocketetl.
11. Ir rej•~t1•tl 011 izround thut jU<l!!1111•11t ht•low wus ri1.d1t. 110 other pet it ion to l11·
a llowed ; ••Xcf•pt wh1•11.
I:!, Court or judi.:1• u llowrtur IIJ>IH'lll, may

stay proceedings.

·

:..'O.

\\'111'111Lpp1·al, ,\:c .. nllow,·«l uml doekt'l·
,.,1, cl••rk to is:-111' s111111111,11s • .\e.
l't•litioll<'rs lo ;..(i\"f' bond : Pxe,·pt wlu-u.
\\'hnt ch-rk to ,•11,lors,.• on su111111011s ns
to bond, ,\:.c.
What sun-t v in ,-11i1l houd 11111v1lo for his
prot .. cti,m·: wh--u nppPl111h: court may
ortlt•r nr-w h1111<l 011 11111tlo1t of II IJlll"llt•I'.
1'iull' within which r .. cord must lw tlh•d
with ,·lt•rk ofnppt•llutP r-ourt,
Prj nu-d r,.,:ord: how dl:-J)Us1•tl or.
\\'lwn l"'litiolll'r d1•sir,•s lo print record,
whut to ht.• dom-.
Ch-rk to inuke tlo1·k,•t of ca usr-s, when
1111tl

:!I.

:!2.
:!:l
:!4.

how.

J),.1•isio11 rernl,·n·,l
hy court not biwli11:,.:
II uthoritv : 1•xcPpt wheu.
Court to d,•ddt.• poi u t s arisini.: upon
r,•cord. 1111'1 prl.'par" syllubus.
Wh,•11 improp,·r for court to hPar eausr-,
fnl't ,.hull h,• 1·11t1·r"d of r,•cor,I.
Purt.ivs: how dl':,ig11at.1·1l 01111pp1•1\l.

Digitized by

Google

8-18
For

APPEALS

r o r rn « r St:r.

law
011 1111· :!a.
,-uhjPCl of this
e h u p te r ... ,.,·~.
Codi' \'11. IKllO.
ch. 18".!. For
ot lwr
ro,frr,.11l'.I':<, s1.•t• SP••-:!7.
t iou s.

TO THE CorRT

OF APPEALS.

[CH. 135.

St:c.
.
~- Cl--rk to ,·,·rtif\' <1,·,•i,-io11s to ,·.011rt l11•low.
'.lint It• laP11r purol tvst imuny, l'X<'••pt
wlu-u.
,·x,·,·pi wlu-u: 1w1111 lty on cl--rk , ,\c.
t'ourt to atllrm wlu-n r lu-n- 1;; no vrror : :.~l. Dut I of ch-rk of 1·... urt h,•low 11,- to ,l,·l'i,;to rt•\'l'f""· ,\t• .. whi-u : 1111lr111i11:,: wlu-u
ioi1" "" rn•rtil11•1l.
1·011rt ,·,pa:ill.,· ol1vi1J.-d; 1111111 j11tl:.:11w11t. au. .\ pJH·al~ to s11pr1•1111· •:ourt
of t'11i1,•,I
,\:c .• h1111· to h,.• re11d,·r,•1l.
~hllt'"·
\\'hut
1la11111g,·,- a llowed
when ea:<1·
utllrm--d.

In wli11t

<'1t.~1·s

tal,·1·11.

1. .\ party to a controversy in any circuit court may obtain from
~tf ~:i..'-H. the supreme court of appeals, or a judge thereof in vacation, an ap1AA-2. ch. 15i.
peal from, or a writ of error or ""!"". . t'(Lt:,, ... to, a judgment, decree or
I II.,\:
M. Wt.
:! 11. ,\: )I. 4tl7. order of such circuit court in the following cases:
3 II . ,\: . ~I. :rn,.
4 \lunr. 403.
Fir ... t. In civil cases, where the matter in controversy exclusive of
:J i;rntt. :t.!6.
, 1;riitt. 36.
costs, is of greater vn l ue or amount than one hum l red do 11 ars, w h ereua t;)tuur.
rut I. :.'60.
•
h
.
fi l
l
l
d
:!O'.!.
111 t ere is a nu jnr gment or t ecree or or er.
J \t·}·~'.':ci.~.~"l. St·rm1d. ln controversies concerning the title or boundaries of
!t~·.'
'Z?;1, n land, the probate of a will, or the appointment of a personal reprefi W. Va.HO.
sentative, guardian, committee or curator.
6 w. v«. :Jail.
i \\'. Vu. 70i ..
Third, Concerning a mill, road, way, ferry or landing.
ll w. v». 249.
tJt· Vu. 58'· Fourth. Concerning the right of a corporation, county or district
l~ \!~~- ~- to levy tolls or taxes.
J7 ~:;~:~i. F,:1~/i. In any case of 'JllfJ rcurra uto, l,,d,m.'i ('()rpuH, 11u11ul,,m11x or
~1 "> ,.;L.S'i.a-11. prohibition.
_rt \\ . \ II. 677.
:.~
w. Va. 111. Si:rtl,. In anv~ case involving freedom or the constitutionality of a
1:u.~.
:t! w. v«. :l.1.
law.
:la W. Yu. so,
:u w. v». 34:!.
S,·n·ntli. ln any case in chancery wherein there is a decree or or(S.• .. Al't~ 1868. der dissolving or refusing
to dissolve au injunction, or requiring
p, lq\_,
i or t he possession
.
. 1e
l:!<iratt. R
money to l>e pat idr, or rea l estate to t >C so I u,
or tit
~tc-,~irau. "0· :ii. of the property to he changed, or adjudicating the principles of tl\,e
s w. \'a.HI.
. ,, .. ,,. tR12-:J, ch.

~r:

~t

:!."l w.

!!7

v». f>:lO.

W. \'11. :!l:i.

CU.Use.
,.

·

•

•

•

In any case where there rs a judgment or order quushing
'!D w. v«.
or abuting, ·or refusing- to quash or abate an attachment.
aw. Va. ll.
Kiut/,. In any civil case where there is an order granting u new
trial or re-hearing, and in such cases an appeal may be taken from
the order without waiting for the new trial or re-hearing to be had.
T,·11t/1. In any criminal case where there has been a conviction in a
circuit court, or there has been n conviction in an inferior court,
which has been altlrmed in a circuit court.
,,.,~ ltl'i':!-3. ,·h.
:!. Any person who is a party to such controversy, wishing to
I,. ~ :!.
l~:!.,•11.1:'!7.
obtain
a writ of error, appeal or .,;11p1·r.~nf,,,,." in the cases named in the
:! \\'. \'a.•.:><,;,
I~ W. \'11. :~.
first section of this chapter, may present a petition therefor to the
:!,') \\'. \' II. 111(.
supreme court of appeals, or to a judge thereof in vacation.
3. No petition shall ht> presented for an appeal from, or writ of
.\I'!"
1"7'.!·3, l'h.
•
Ii.~ :t
error or ,rn1w1·s,-,/1·,,.<1 to: any Judgment, decree or order, whether the
im.
t·h. 44.
t
t
I
h
. d grnent o f a circurt
.
.
IK"I'!. ,·h. 1r,i.
s a e Je n. party t erclo or not, nor to any JU
':! ,11111f. '.!-I':!.
• •
1
1
.
1
.
~ \lu11r.1r,:J.
court or mumcipa court renr ered rn an appen from the Judgment of
~1'\, ', v,:u'.11i0u. a justice, which shall have heen rendered
or made more than tin"
:fJ\·. Va. Mi. years before such petition is presented, if the judgment, decree or
~
\\:.
\1;/~&.i. order
mentioned in the petition has been given, rendered or made
m.
before this chapter, as amended, takes etfect; hut us to any judgment,
. 1·~- MO.

67:i.

E,,glitli.

Digitized by

Google

CH. 135.J

APPEALS

849

TO THE COURT OJ.' APPEALS.

~r

decree or order given, rendered or made after this chapter, us::;
\:\/t\u.
amended, takes effect, no such petition shall he presented after two :78.
. .
:!8 \\. \ a. 31-1.
yen.rs from the date of such judgment, decree or order.
4. At the instance of anv person who desires to present such peti- A<"ts t8i:!-3. ch.
.
17. Ii 4.
tion,
t h e court in w hlic l1 t lie~ [uc1 gment, decree or order is, may, dur- JRi":;•
ch.'~,:.
.mg t h e term at w hire h it. .is renr 1 ere d or mace,
l or .1 f it
. l )e in a circuit
. s188-.
ch. Jo,.
w. Va. M7.
.
. JU
. d ge may, wi't) 1111
.
• ltS W. Yu. H64.
eour t , any circuit
twenty (l ays a f ter sucu1. term is
ended, upon notice in writing to the opposite party (in either case
the court or the judge exercising n discretion), make an order suspending the execution of such judgment, decree or order (for a reasonable
time, to be specified in such order) when such person shall give bond
before the clerk of said court, in such penalty as the court or judge
may require, with a condition reciting such judgment, decree or order,
and the intention of said person to present such petition, and providing for the payment of all such dumagos as any person may sustain by reason of the said suspension, in case a x111uTsnl,·o.11 to such
judgment, decree or order should not be allowed und he effectual
within the time so specified.
5. With such petition there shall he a transcript of the record of .,e,,. IH'i'..!-:t ch.
so much of the case wherein the judgment, decree or order is, as will
7:1i. 1 ta.
. l
...
•
127\\".\'a.:!11.
ena bl e t h e court or Jm
ge to w h om t h e petition
IA to be presenter , ao w. v». 1116.
properly to decide on such petition, and enable the court, if the petition be granted, properly to decide the questions that may arise
hefore it. The person intending to petition shall notify the opposite
party, or his counsel, of bis intention, if any portion of the record
not authorized in section six of this chapter, is intended to be omitted therefrom.
6. Unless the person so intending to petition direct otherwise, .,,:1~ 187:.l-:J ... 11.
there shall not be copied in a chancery case, any of the process,
~:h. tr,7.
returns or evidences of service, nor the commissions (if uny) and~ ~~1:)),;\'00.
notices to take depositions, the captions to such depositions, and!
us.
certificates of their having been sworn to, except so far as may be! ~::·.\;11~ :1.
necessary to the decision of exceptions taken to the reading of the :.?t w · Yu. 3:.'7.
depositions, hui the name of each witness and the day of taking his
deposition, shall be stated at the head thereof.
If more than one
copy of the same paper he filed in the case, only one copy of it shall
he. inserted.
There shall not be copied nn account reported by a
commissioner, to which there is no exception, nor any printed document of which either party will furnish to the clerk a copy, hut such
duplicate shall be attached to what is copied; and when a case has
before Leen in the supreme court of appeals, there shall only be copied
the proceedings subsequent to the former appeal, writ of error or 1,11pn·-~nf<.as.
The bond filed, and the notice of appeal, if one has been
served, shall be inserted in the record.
1'r1Jt·idnl, That the clerk .\<'Is IHi'J-a. ch.
shall make out the whole record, or any additional part thereof, if J~}~:11_ Jr,7_
either party to the appeal shall so direct.
\;};-~~;\\~~:!.
7. The appelate con rt, or the judge thereof, may, when a case has s w .. \'!'- :.'74:
30 \\.\a. 1!.«i.
before been in such court, inspect the record upon the former appeal, :t.! w. Va. Mt\

:~J

:~J

~:~~:Usu.

Digitized by

Google

850

APPEALS

TO THE COURT OF APPEALS.

[CH. 135.

writ of error or su 1wrs,·df'Clx. And such court may, in any case,
award a writ of crrtioruri to the clerk of the court below, and have
brought before it, when part of a record is omitted, the whole or
any part of such record.
\'',~" 187'.!·3. ch.
8. A. petition for uppeal, writ of error, or snpcrsedeu«, shall as~PS"~.8;:h. Hi7.
sign errors, and it shall not be presented until some counsel or at13 W. Yu. 741.
. hiis opm1011
. .
torney o f t h e appe ll ate court s ha ll certiif y t hat in
rt .is
proper that the decision should he reviewed by such court .
. vets 18i2•3• ch.
B. The petition shall be presented to the supreme court of appeals
17. !9.
188:.. ch. 1°1.
or to a judge thereof.
Mts 187'.!-3. ch.
10. If upon a petition as aforesaid, the appeal, writ of error or
17. § JO.
188:!. ch. 157.
s11p,.,..•wdms to a judgment, order or decree of a circuit court or a
court of limited jurisdiction within any incorporated town or city
from which an appeal lies to the supreme court of appeals, he allowed, the uppeal, writ of error or s111,,·r.,;n/,·"·" shall he docketed in
the supreme court of appeals.
Act" 187'.!-a. eh.
11. In a case wherein the court shall deem the judgment, decree
1~i
:~.
•. 44.
or order complained of, plainly right, and reject it on that ground,
no other petition therein shall afterward he entertained.
But the
rejection of sue~ petition by a judge in mention, shall not prevent
the presentation of such petition to the court when in session .
.\ct,. t87'.!-a. ch.
12. The court or judge to whom a petition is duly presented, if of
\i-rt'i~i r, 157. opinion that the decision complained of ought to he reviewed, may
1'~,,.'~·\/f· allow an appeal, writ of error or s11p,·1-."t:d,·a..., and may stay proceedings either in whole or in part.
Acts 187'.!-3. ch.
13. Every appeal, writ of er~or or .rnp,·r,wd,·os shall, when it is to
l~.1}i1. 157. or from a judgment, decree or order of the circult court of any county
497·
JO w.vs.
or from any court within any incoq~orated city, town or village which
has the right of appeal to the supreme court of appeals, be docketed
in said court.
The clerk of the court wherein it is docketed, shall
in a case in which it is allowed, on petition, issue a summons
against the parties interested, other than the petitioners. that they
may he heard, and also issue any 111p,·,·snl,·,1x which ~ay be awarded,
which summons, writ of error or ... u1u·r.'(,.,1,.,,.-. may he served upon the
party in person or his attorneys in the court from which the appeal
is taken.
Acts llli'..!-:t ch.
14. Kxcept when an appeal, writ of error or x1tperlu·,l,,,,s is proper
i1. ~ i-t.
.
.
1Nt.!. <'11. 1m.
to protect t I ie estate o f a d ecei l ent, convict
or msane
person, t h e
4 w. v«. 31:!.
1
•
•
l >y t I ie appe II ants or
tH w. v». 331\. sames h a11 not tu k c e ff ect untiil b onn is
given
U, w. v«. :!6."i. po title
• a peua I ty to l -.e
583.
1 toners, or one o f th
. em, or some ot h er person, in

J.f\tc{\t~o.

~: \i·.

v:~. i~.

fixed hy the court or judge, hy or in which the appeal, writ of error
or s11pt•r.vd,•11s is allowed or entered with condition: If a R1tpasrd, "~
be awarded, to perform and satisfy the judgment, decree or order.
or any part thereof, proceedings on which are stayed, in case the
said judgment, decree or order, or such part be affirmed, or the appeal, writ of error or sup,,r1wd,,111~ be dismissed, and nlso, to pay all
damages, cost and fees, which may he awarded against or incurred
by the appellants or petitioners; and if it he an appeal from an order

Digitized by

Google

Cu. 135.J

851

APPEALS TO THE COURT 01" APPEALS.

or decree dissolving an injunction, or dismissing a bill of injunction
with u further condition, to indemnify and save harmless the surety
in the injunction bond against loss or damage in consequence of his
.suretyship; and with condition when no s11p,·rxnln1s
is awarded, to
pay such specific damages, and such costs and fees as may be so
awarded or incurred.
15. The clerk of the supreme court of appeals shall endorse on the i\~t"'
ch.
summons or s11prr.•wd,·,,.i1, that it is not to he effectual until the bond l8lt-. ch. 1;"·
with good personal security, he given heforc the clerk of the court
below; who shall take said bond nnd endorse on the process that it
has been given, and the names of the sureties therein, and forward to
the clerk of the supreme court of appeals a certified copy of such
bond.
16: On the motion of any surety in said bond, after reasonable .\1'.t~ ISi:?-3. ch
17 · ¥ ie.
•
.
Ius
. prmcipa
. . I , t h e nppe 11 ate court may oreI er .\88'notice,
or a ru l e against
. ch.- '1!?·
l xm d to 1 re given
.
.in sue l 1 tune
.
.
·1
.
h
tH
·
'
as it may prescri ie, wit a su cient "1 '' · v«. ,:!O.
security to indemnify and save harmless such surety against nll loss
or damage in consequence of his suretyship, or upon motion of the
uppellee alleging the insufficiency of the sureties .in such bond, the
appellate court may order a new bond with sufficient security to he
executed within such reasonable time as the court· may prescribe,
and if such order be not complied with, may order the appeal, writ
of error or supa.~,·d,·,,.11 to he dismissed.
17. No process shall issue upon nny appeal, writ of error or 1mpcr- ,\~~.. 1~8:~·3.ch.
tml"'ts allowed to or from a final judgment, decree or order, if when l~{ ~:;. •7
the record is delivered to the clerk of the appellate court there shall
have elapsed fh'e years since the date of such final judgment, decree
or order, hut the appeal, writ of error or ·"'I/H'r.'ird,,,,,y shall be dismissed whenever it appears that five years have elapsed since the
said date before the record is delivered to such clerk, or before such
bond is given, as is required to he given before the appeal, writ of
error or ·"''P~r.~e,/ ,1 ~ takes elfect.
l'ri11t,,d r,,,·,,rd.'i-ltou, dis1ms1·d of.
18. There shall be eighteen copies of the record printed, contain- .\,·~,.. 18?0. p.~31:
.
ti ie petiititon, so mue I1 o f tie
I recorr l as ti te counse 1 f or any party 187-·3,ch.
t,.t
mg
18.
.in t eres te d or th e court may c1·irect, am 1 t lre la lJ l e o f con t en t's, •m octavo ch.
\Sl'I'111~.u111.L\cts
Acts 1871.
.
type, th e titl
IR7'~·3. IHS:!.
eh. 39·1
f orm, on boo k paper o f goo. 1 qua lit1 .y, l ong primer
1 e on Acts
ch.
the cover to be in the center, preserving on the margin of the printed~~\·. vc. T~.
record the paging of the record from the court below, which shall be
used in printing and returned to the clerk's otllce of the supreme
court of appeals.
Of the printed records, the clerk shall deliver one
to each jmige, two to the counsel on each side, retain one in his office, transmit one to the clerk of the court below (in which the case
was originally decided), and shall deliver one copy to the reporter.
The clerk shall have the record printed if the purty obtaining the
appeal, writ of error or .~11p,·r.w·d1·11s request him to do so, and shall
deposit with him a sufficient amount to pay for said printing, which
shall be twenty-two cents for every one hundred words printed, and

~f.?·~~

i.

0

Digitized by

Google

852

APPEALS

TO THE COURT OF APPEALS.

[CH. 135.

the cost of printing said record shall be printed at the end of same,
anti no greater compensation shall be charged. The cost of such
printing unless otherwise ordered by the court shall he taxed against
the opposite party, if the judgment, decree or order appealed from
be reversed. And should the appellant or plaintiff in error fail, for
six months after his case has been docketed in the court of appeals,
to deposit with the clerk of said court of appeals. a sufficient amount
to pay for the printing of the record, or shall himself, for six months
fail to have the record printed and filed in the clerk's office of said
court of appeals, he shall be deemed to have abandoned his appeal
and the same shall he dismissed; hut it may be renewed at any time
within five or two years from the date of the judgment, order or decree
appealed from, according to the provisions of section three of this
chapter. In every felony case the clerk shall have the usual number
of records printed at a cost not exceeding the amount fixed by this
section, and dispose of the same as in other cases, and upon the certificate of the president. of the supreme court of appeals, stating that
such record has been printed aud the amount said clerk is entitled
to, the costs of printing the same shall be paid to said clerk out of
the treasury of the State.
·
.
l f). If a party who has obtained un appeal, writ of error or xupai\.-ts 11'!1,\l, p. 31.
•
187:!-3. ch. 11. ~ snlcn«. desires to have said record printed himself, he shall notify the
:~:!. ch. 157.
clerk of the supreme court of appeals of such intention, and if the
manuscript record is in possession of the said clerk, it shall be his
duty, when required by said party, to deliver said record to him, or.
if he is directed to <lo so, he shall forward the said record to the said
party by mail or express upon receiving a sufficient• sum to pay the
postage or express charges upon same, when the said party shall have
the number of copies thereof printed as required by the preceding
section, and in the manner therein set forth. After he shall have
had said record printed, they shall he delivered by him to said clerk,
to he disposed of and used hy him as is provided in sectiou eighteen
of this chapter, together with the manuscript record and the costs of
printing said record shall be taxed in the costs recovered, in case the
juclgmcnt or decree appealed from be reversed: Pmridnl, That said
costs shall not exceed the amount fixed by the preceding section of
this chapter: ~Lw/ prorid,·d furtlu·r, If the record is imperfect and
not printed in all respects as is required in this chapter, the court, in
its discretion, is authorized to have the said record, or any part
thereof, re-printed nt the price hereinbefore fixed for the same, at
the expense of the party obtaining the appeal, writ of error or s n-:
l""' ... ,·d1·11....
A11d J>rol'id, ti furtl,a,. That. the clerk of the supreme
court of uppeals shall carefully compare the printed records filed in
his office with the transcripts of records certified by the clerks of
courts below, and mark upon each copy of the printed record all errors that may have heen commited in printing. For his services in
this behalf he shall he entitled to a fee of one cent for each thirty
words of the printed record.

Digitized by

Google

CH. 135.J

APPEALS

853

TO THE COURT OF APPEALS.

20. Before the commencement of each session of the supreme court.,<',,,•~;
P· is.
IHtlfl. p, z;
of appeals the clerk shall make out a docket of the causes then readv 1s1·•·.\cts isre-a
1'11. 16. ~ H. I
for hearing in the i:,errand division where the session of the court is ch.
1s1·1• Acts tR'iO.
16.)
about to be held. They shall be numbered by figures and shall be .~ets 188:!. eh.
docketed in the order in which the records were received.
The tL:.il!h ~'9\J.
d
h
d ,
4 <iratt. 1811.
ocket s a 11 be arranged in such order as the court may esignate, ; Gra tt. an
.
h
. I H(irutt. 2Yi.
except th at a 11 causes f rom a county as we ll as m eac partieu ar e w. vu. r,;:-a.
circuit, or part of a circuit, shall be together, and to each circuit, or
part of a circuit, a sufficient portion of the term shall be assigned for
the causes to be heard and submitted, and the causes in each circuit,
or part of a circuit, shall he heard and submitted, or unless postponed and continued for good cause, before those as arranged on the
docket for the next circuit or part of a circuit, shall he called and
taken up. Thirty days before the term is to commence, the clerk
shall cause to be printed on a sufficient number of slips, the order in
which the circuits. or part of a circuit are arranged, the causes for
trial, and the days assigned to each circuit and part of a circuit, and
mail one copy thereof to each judge of the supreme court of appeals,
and to each judge of u circuit court, and ten copies to each clerk of
a circuit court.
~ 1. ~o decision rendered hy the supreme court of appeals shall be .\ct,; J>r..!-:1. ch.
. 1·mg aut hor ity
. upon any o f t h e .m f error
.
consiid ere d as l nnc
courts o f Ill.~
1814'.!. o.rh. IM.
,
S
.
h
.
1
l
. l
I
·
1
h
l
•
so
t lus tate, except in t e particu ar case uecu eu, un t\SS sue uecis- :11 w.
w. Vu.
v«. 107.
16.
ion is concurred in by at least three judges of the court.
:!:!. When a judgment or decree is reversed or affirmed hy the su- .\et1< 18i'2-:1. ch.
preme court of appeals, every point fairly arising upon the record of l~~l ~;. 1r,;_
the case shall be considered and decided; and the reasons therefor r:!'k"~!;/i:~·.
shall be concisely stated in writing and preserved with the record of 31 w. v«, M:!.
the case; and it shull he the duty of the court to prepare a syllabus
of the points adjudicated in each case concurred in by the three
judges thereof, which shall he prefixed to the published report of
the case.
2a. If at any
time there he on the docket of the supreme court of ,\,·ts -1~1:!-3. 1·h.
•
.
,
.
16. ~ II.
appeals, at either place of session. a ease in respect to which a ma- n111·! ch. 157.
jority of the judges of said court are so situated as to make it improper for them to sit on the hearing thereof, that fact shall be entered of record.
l'artir:~-lwu- dn,i,q11atf.•d u11 ttJJpt·al.
:!4. The plaintiff in the court below shall he $lesignatcd as plain· j}~'." ·ll48'.!. eh,
itr in the uppelate court.
The case shall be entered on the appeal
docket as follows:
•'A-B--,
plaintitf and nppellee (or appellant, plaintitf in error, defendant in error as the case may be), cs;
C-D--,
defendant and appellant" (or appellee, plaintiff in
error, or defendant in error, as the case may be).
.-\et,, t-r.:!-:t l'li.
25. The supreme court of appeals shall not hear parol testimony l::S.1 ~1;. isr.
except in cases in which it has original jurisdiction.
.\..r,- IBi:!-:3. di.
:!G. The supreme court of appeals shall affirm the judgment, decree
~=f; tfl,.
or order if there be n~error therein and reverse the same in whole a cnu 101. <sill•!
t

'

w

:::J.

'

~

,

I'· I:!'~.)

Digitized by

Google

854

1 ~L

APPEALS

TO THE CoURT OF APPEALS.

[CH. 135.

f)O·

or in part, if erroneous, uml enter such judgment, decree or order as
the court whose error is sought to he corrected ought to have entered,
3 Hau,I. 94.
-i R1111,1. :~.
affirming in cases where the court is equally divided. In the case of
:i L•·il{h. -kri.
•
•
L4·1:..th.
o:i, an appeal from an order gmnting a new trial, or re-hearing, 1f the
i1 · Ll'i1d1. 137. order be reversed, such final judgment, decree or order shall be ren~ .. ti.49'.!.
dered or made in the case us the appellant was entitled to in the
~~-rntt. :!8, :!."i9. court below.
16
w.v». ~:!.7. When any judgment, decree or order is affirmed in the su\ch-~ 187·•-·3
ch
..1
ia.'
~
•
•
·
·
pre
me court o f nppen l s, namuges
s l in 11 l le a wart l erl to t h e appe 11 ee.
14.
~~t::,/iiJ/1. Such damages, when the judgment, decree or order is for the payi1~;~1.:1~. ment of money, shall be at the rate of six per centum per annum on
O Grut t , tH. '.!ti. the whole amount of the recovery, including interest and cost, from
the time the appeal took effect, until the decision of the supreme
court of appeals is entered in the order book of the court below;
which damages shall be in satisfaction of all interest during that time.
When the judgment, decree or order is not for the payment of any
money, except costs, the damages shall be such specific sum as the
supreme court of appeals may deem reasonable, not being more than
one hundred dollars.
~8. Whc11 any term of the supreme court of appeals is ended, or
.\1•1 s llfi~-3. ch.
16. !i 15.
sooner, if the court so direct, the clerk thereof shull certify and by
l~.ch.
l!ii.
I Wash. 7fi.
muil or otherwise transmit its decision to the clerk of the court beII Lf'ii:li /j,'jl.
low, except that it shall not he his duty to certify or transmit a copy
of such decision unless the prevailing party shall have paid all fees
due from him in the cause, and also an amount sufficient to pay the
postage thereon. If any clerk shall fail to comply with this section
for twenty days, except as aforesaid, he shall forfeit fifty dollars to
any person uggrieYC'<I.
.\ct~ 187'.!-a. eh.
:W. The court from which any case mu)" have come to the supreme
l~J 1r,;, court of appoals, shall enter the decision of the appellate court as
~ f:!ll
its own, and execution thereon may issue accordingly. If such decision be received by the clerk of the L'OUrt below in vacation, be
I'.! w. Va. lit!.
shall enter it of record in his order hook, and thereupon such execution may issue and such proceedings he had in the case as would have
been proper if the dectsion had been entered in court.
App<''"·" to the ·""Pl'l'111f' c1111rt '!f fl1t· Unitf'<l Stote«.
.\i,1,. I8ll:!, ch.
30. At the instance of any party to a controversy in the supreme
lf-w. v». i-il'>. court of appeals, who desires to present a petition to the supremo
8<1'..!.
court of the United ~talc's for nn nppcal from, or writ of error or
s111;(·r.... nl,·"·" to, a final decree, [udgmeut or order therein: the supreme
court of appeals during the term at which it is rendered or made, or
any judge thereof. may, within sixty days after the term at which
such decree, judgment or order is rendered or made, is ended, make
an order (which shall he certified hy him to the clerk of said last
mentioned court, and he entered hy him in the proper order hook)
suspending the execution of such deen•t\ judgment or order for ninety
days utter the term is ended at which it is rendered or made. when
such person shall gi H' bond he fore the cler~of Maid last mentioned
4

1;~/~·61

~11111r. eo.

.~1

:t
n~:
~ ~:::::r ~:

'

Digitized by

Google

CH.

136.J

855

GENERAL PROVISIONS AS TO CIVIL CASES.

court, or the clerk of the circuit court, from which the case or cause
was taken to the supreme court of uppeals, in such penalty as the.
court or judge may require, with a condition reciting such decree,
judgment or order, and the intention of said person to present such
petition, and providing for the payment of all such damages as any
person may sustain by reason of the said suspension, in case a sup,'nu-dn,s to such decree, judgment or order should not he allowed and he
etf ectnal within the time so specified.

CHAPTJm CXXXVI.
1 .\!I 11mPt1dl'd nnd r•··<•11actl'II.
OENERAL

Suit

AR

PROYI~IONS

Sf:e.
I. .lurlsdiction
of ,.uits 011 (lt'llnl honds:
how <l••t,•rmin,.,I.
2. Bond tor oht11i11i111! writ or or,lt•r. 11111\'
lw t''.lit'('lllt•d hr any rw·r,.011 us prlucipu) with suffi,•ll"lll sun-tv.
:t 1>11111111!•'" for dl't .. 11tio11 nf prop,•rt~· aft••r
verdict.
4. l'•·riotl ,·xcl111l1•d from op-rut ion 11r statute <•f limitutton.
011

S.•,• .\cti,: IRS'.!. ch. 124. l

Stw.
~:1

1,'1;_
fl.
,.
8.

TO

CIYIL

CAflF;~.

t
f

t 'iti1.,·11s who aid,•tl. 1t111l 11cti,: <lout· iu
tilt' luu- eivil war.
Sta.,· of pro<~""<lilll!" in c1•rt11i11 en~"~·
EIT,·,·I t1f r1·l•·ns1·. ,\,· .. in ,·,•rt11i11 ·~a;;,•;..
.l11tli.:1111•11t pnid hy 01w d••f••tul1111t in 11c·
tion e r delirto ; ,·011tributiu11
h~· others.

lnnul« 1citl, condition.

1. Where the proceeding before a court or justice is on a penal\::~•:· ;;~.f' ~?i:
bond, with condition for the payment of money. the jurisdiction shall ::.i~iunr.ri5n.
he determined as if the undertaking to pay such money had been" v». Cus, :!15.
without a penalty. Ami where jurisdiction depends on the amount
of a judgment, if it he on such a bond, the jurisdiction shall be determined by the sum, payment whereof will discharge the judgment.
2. A bond for obtaining nny writ or order in term tiine or vaca- co<11· Vu. r.,5:!.
tion, may he executed by any one person with sufficient surety, i':l.;'. . . 1~:!. eh.
though it be in a case no party to which is an ohligor.
Dtm111!/''J: for

d,·tn1tiu11

a.

'!/

pro}" rt.11 ,~ffrr cerdict .

When n judgment for spcciflc persona! property is affirmed by\::~~·';~:
an appellate court, or an injunction to such judgment is dissolved, t:.?-t.
the person who is entitled to execution of such judgment, or who
would be entitled if execution had not heen had, may, on motion t.o
the court from which such execution has issued, or might issue,
after four weeks· notice to the defendant or his personal representatives, have n- jury impaneled to uscertnin the damages sustained by
reason of the detention of such property subsequent to such judgment, or, if it was on a verdict. subsequent to such verdict; and
judgment shall he rendered for the damages so ascertained, if any .
}',r,,,d

1·:1·d11dul

from

opr,r11ti1111 oj" .~t11f11t,,
•

ol
•

limit,,ti1111.

~:>f;:

•\l'b IHM.1'11.'i'J.
1s .. l' Act,- lH'i'J.
1'11.119.

4. ln computing the time within which any net ion of rleht, dot- ~t~/ 1
inue, covenant, assumpsit, trover, trespass, or case, pending at the?~,-. v«. fi,n.
time this chapter, as nmcnded, takes <'lf'c·et. shnll he barred hv any 4 w. v«, 1:i8.
·
•
~ r-. w. \' u. :!ill!.
statute of limitation, the period from the scvoutoenth day of April, 11 w. v». :ltl'J.
one thousand eight hundred and sixty-one, to the first day of )larch: i tl;. ~!·o. one thousand eight hundred und sixty-the, i..;hall be excluded from~~; f,~: ':t:1.
.iuch coinputu tion.
:JI w · Va. ror.

:J.f';t

~r:

~r

Digitized by

Google

856

GENERAL PRo,·rsJONS AS TO

Crvrr,

CASES.

[Cn. 136.

;\:;~.~ ,t~~ r;~:
('iti:,·11.~ trlio «u.«, und act» do11P, in tlu· lat» war.
\'Jt~~fi{t 5. No citizen of this State who aided or participated in the late
1W" t81t!, ch. war between the government of the United States and a part of the
~~r,1~1 _-::r~: people thereof, on either side. shall he liahle in any proceeding. civil
1 ~\.-.t~·-~~~-_f:1~: or crirninnl ; nor shall bis property he seized or sold under final pro1

cess, issued upon judgments, or decrees heretofore rendered, or otherwise, because of any net done according to the usng<>s of civilized
,·11.
•
.
• I
.
.
warfare, in the prosecution of sau war, hy. either of the parties
f!/~.\~/16-l. thereto.
:!I• w. Vu, r,;.
[5a. I. That no citizen of this State who aided or participated in
A<•t,- l~.!-:1. di. tl ie l ate war \ >e t ween t h e govcmmen t o f tl. re l'.rnit e<I ~tat('S
.,
r~.
ant I a pa rt
lllw.,·n.Mt.oo.
f
tl
l
ti
f
'th
·
I
h
II
l
1·
l
l
·
a!l\l. 1ttr.!.
o
ie p('op <' tereo , on ('I er Sil o, s a le ta , c in any proee«l ·
~ w. v». a,. ing, civil or criminal, nor shall his property he seized or sold under
final process issued upon judgments or decrees heretofore rendered.
or otherwise, because of any act done according to the usagl'S of civilized warfare.
A,.,,. 1~;·!-:1. eh.
11. That in any action or suit pending, or which may hereafter
l'lk.
he brought in any court of this ~tate, if it shall appear by the declaration or other pleading of the plaintiff, that the act complained of
was done according to the usages of civilized warfare: in the prosecution of the war between the govornment of the United ~tatcs and
a part of the people thereof; the court upon demurrer to the declaration, or other pleading of the plaintiff, shall dismiss the plaintiff's
action at his costs.
And if it does not so appear, the court shall admit any proper plea setting forth that the act complained of by the
plaintiff' in the action, was done according to the usag('s of civilized
warfare in the prosecution of said war; and if upon au issue of law,
or fact, made upon the said plea, it he found for the defendant. the
judgment of the court shall he in his favor .
.'~~:t.. 1~1.t·h.-10.
Ill. That if it he alleged hy petition under oath of the defendant,
:!:! w. \"11. :ll5. or his personal representative, to the court in which any judgment or
:.!i\\.\'11.~IK
·
•
decree shall haw been rendered, or to any court to which such jndgmcnt shall have been, or shall he transferred, that such judgment or
decree was recovered or rendered because of an act done according to
the usages of civilized warfare in the prosecution of said war, the
court shall order said petition to he docketed, and shall cause the
plaintiff in such judgment or decree to he summoned to appear at the
next term of such C'OHrt, to answer such petitition, and slmll suspend
proceedings to enforce such judgment or decree, until the questions
arising upon such petition he determined. 1 f the plaintiff in such
judgment fail to appear and answer said petition after summons hns
been duly served upon him, and tho allogntions of SHC'h petition \I('
proven, judgment shall he rendered hy the court that such judgment
shall never he enforced. or attempted to he enforced, hy execution or
other process or proceeding : and if t he plaintiff in such j11d~rt11l'nt
shall nppear and answer sai«l pet it ion, the issue made np shall t'I('
submitted to n jury. to h<• drawn as other [uries are druwn. who sball
he sworn to find whet her such judgment or decree was recovered or
.1;0. :..~ia. :IB1.:tt.!.
.iriti. 4:!ll.
i;
\'a.:)H4fl.
; w.
1.
III w_. \'1!. 10.

w.

Digitized by

Google

Ctt. 136.J

Acrs

DoNE Dult.ING THE

857

LAn~WAR.

rendered because of an act done according to the usages of civilized
warfare in the prosecution of said war; and if the verdict of the jury
upon such issue he in favor of the petitioner, such judgment shall be
rendered by the court as in a case where the allegations of such petition are proven as above provided for; and if the verdict he in favor
of the plaintiff in such judgment, the said petition shall he dismissed ;
and in either case, the party prevailing shall recover his costs.
The
court may set aside the verdict of the jury and award a new trial,
and appeals may he 'had as in other cases.
IV. Ir any judgment or decree rendered in this State because of,,,.,,. 11r..!-:t ch
any act or acts done in the lnte war between the government of the
r-h. 4
United States and a part of the people thereof, on either side, according to the usages of civilized warfare in the prosecution of said war,
is sought to be enforced against the defendant or defendants therein,
the circuit court of the county in which such judgment or decree was
rendered, or in which it is sought to he enforced, may and shall huve
full jurisdiction to enjoin the enforcement thereof, und upon being
satisfied by testimony taken, that such judgment or decree was rendered because of any act or nets, so done, shall set the same aside
and declare it void, and decree that the same shall never he enforced
by execution or other process; or, if nny such judgment or decree as
is mentioned in the last section, is sought in nny way to he enforced
in any of the courts of this Stnte upon the chancery side thereof,
such court in which such judgment or decree is sought to he enforced,
may and shall, upon being satisfied by testimony taken, that. it was
rendered because of an act or acts done in the said late war, according to the usages of civilized warfare in the prosecution of said war,
declare the same to he void and decree that the same shall never be
enforced; or, if any such judgment or decree as is mentioned in this
section, appear of record to be a lien upon any real estate of any (lefendent therein, in this State, the circuit court of the county in which
such lien so appears, may and shall have jurisdiction, upon proper
hill filed, to declare such judgment or decree void, and remove such
apparent lien as a cloud upon the title of such real estate, and upon
hcing satisfied by propt~r testimony that such j mlgmcnt or decree was
rendered because of any such act or acts so done, may and shall declare the same void, and that the same is not and shall not he a lien
upon said real estate; and if in any of the proceedings mentioned in
this section, it is desired by either party thereto, the courl may impanel a jury to try whether such judgment or decree complained of
was recovered or rendered because of an act or acts done, in the late
war between the government of the United ~tatcs and a part of the
people thereof, according to the usages of civilized warfare in the
prosecution of said war, and if the verdict of the jury so impaneled
shall he that such judgment or decree was rendered because of nnv
such act or nets so done, the court shall· thereupon declare such
judgment or decree void and of no effect, and decree that the same
shull never be enforced.

;t~a.

Digitized by

o.

Google

808

ACTS DONE

DURING TUE LATE

w AR.

[Cn. 136.

V. That upon the trial of any indictment, presentment or information, the defendant may be permitted to show that the act charged
against him was done according to the usages of civilized warfare in
the prosecution of said war, and if the evidence establishes the fact,
he shall he entitled to a verdict of acquittal, nnd the court, if required, shall so instruct the jury.
VI. In prosecutions where there has been a conviction of felony,
or of n misdemeanor, the party convicted, before the court in which
the conviction was had, or court to which the judgment of conviction was transferred, upon petition of the party under oath, that the
act for which he was convicted was done according to the usages of
civilized warfare, and being satisfied of the truth of the allegation,
the court shall award to the party a new trial to be bad according
to the provisions of this act.
VJI. If any defendant who has heretofore been sued for acts
arising out of a participation in the late wnr.or for acts in confederation with others therein, in which he was sought to he rendered liable
by suit, has compromised such suit or liability, under the belief that
he was restrained in the justice of his defence und the equal privileges of a suitor by the constitutional and statutory disabilities imposed upon him because he had so participated in said war, and shall
make oath to such belief, it shall thereupon he lawful, and the duty
of the court in which such suit was instituted, to re.instate such suit
on the docket of the court to he therein tried ; and if upon such trial
the plaintiff fail to establish his claim before a jury of twelve impartial men, according to the usages and rules of proceedings in the
courts of this State, to hold that such compromise, by reason of
such disabilities, was void and of no effect, and if money was paid
on such compromise, to require the same to be returned; or if obligations or other contracts were executed for the payment or delivery
of anything in pursuance of such compromise, to hold that such ohligation or contract was, and is, void and of no effect; and in case the
money on such compromise shall have been paid, the court shall, by
execution or otherwise, provide for its being reclaimed and paid to
the party purchasing, or his personal representatl ve. Said cause
shall he. tried according to the provisions of the first section of this
net, and the plaintiff shall not ht! authorized lo dismiss his suit to
avoid a trial unless the defendant shall consent thereto; and the same
shall he conducted in the same manner as provided for in other cases
mentioned in this act. J
r-h.
[5b. 1. That if any person who has heretofore been sued either
by civil or criminu! proceedings instituted aguinst him for acts arising out of u participation in the late war between the government of
the United States and a part of the people thereof, or for such acts
in confederut ion with others therein, in which he or they was sought
to he rendered liable by suit or indictment, or other civil or criminal
proceedings instituted or t hrentenod, anti in consequence thereof has
entered into a compromise, by which lie <lid pay any money or other

.\<'II' 187'.!·3. ch.
5K.

hi.

Id.

.\,·t~ IHi".!·3.

1r,·!.

Digitized by

Google

Ca. 136.J

ACTS DONE DURING THE LATE

W' All.

859

valuable

consideration, and hy reason of such compromise a uolle
has been entered, or said civil suit dismissed, or no suit
brought on account of said compromise, or no criminal proceedings
instituted in consequence thereof, and money or other thing paid on
such compromise, or where evidences of debt or other obligations
have been given under the belief that he was restrained in the justice
of his defence and the equal privileges of a suitor, by the constitutional and statutory disabilities imposed upon him because he had
participated in said war, and at the trial of said cause shall make
oath to such belief, it shall thereupon be lawful, and it shall be the.
duty of the court upon an action being hrought by said defendant,
or his personal representative, upon the law side of the circuit court,
for money had and received for the use of the said party, to impanel
a jury and try the case according to the principles of this chapter,
and if the verdict of the jury be for the plaintiff, to give judgment
for the amount of money so paid, or for the value of any property so
paid, with attorney fees and other costs incurred, with interest upon
the same from the time of said payment until paid, and his costs,
with attorney fees, in this proceeding.
II. That in all cases where persons have paid money or other val- I<l.
uable consideration
for the compromise of criminal proceedings
either instituted or threatened for acts done according to the usages
of civilized warfare in the war hctween the government of the United
States and a part of the people thereof, that the said parties shall,
upon proof of said facts, in an action of assumpait, recover back
any money or the value of any other thing paid, with interest, from
the party receiving said money or other thing, whether he be a private person or officer, in any court of the county or before any justice 'according to their respective jurisdictions.
And where any contract has been entered into on account of said compromise, and the
party sued thereon, he may plead the same in bar of a recovery.
And
the statute of limitation shall not apply to actions brought under
this act. And in all such actions the plaintiff may declare generally
for money had and received to the use of the plaintiff, but he shall
file with his declaration n specification of account as near as may he
of the time the money or other thing was paid, the amount of money
or value of other things so paid.
III. That in any action or suit heretofore hrought now pending, l<l.
or which may hereafter he hrought before any justice, if it shall appear in a pending cause, or in a cause hereafter to he brought, by
the warrant, or from any of the pleadings, or papers of the plaintiff'
in any such suit, that the action complained of, or the action of another for which he was held, or sought to he held liable, was done
according to the usages of civilized warfare, in the prosecution of
the war between the government of the United States and a part of
the people thereof, the justice, if it shall so appear, or be proved
before him, shall, upon motion of the party or personal representative, dismiss the plaintiff's action at his costs.
If the matter bas
prosequ]

Digitized by

Google

Ac'l"s DoNE Duarso TRE LATE

860

W Alt.

[CH.

13G.

been adjudicated before a justice, and a judgment shall have been
rendered thereon hy him, against the defendant, such defendant or
his personal representative, may tile a petition in the circuit or county
court of the county wherein such judgment was rendered, for an
appeal, which shall be granted as a matter of right, without regard
to any limitation of time, or to the value of the matter in controversy.
Such appeal shall he tried according to the principles contained in this act, and all such appeals shall be cognizable in the
county court. and shall be then docketed and tried and shall not be
dismissed without the consent of the defendant or appellant, or his
personal representative. And if, upon the trial of any such appeal,
the judgment shall be for the defendant or appellant, and all or any
part of it shall have been paid, there shall be a judgment of restitution in favor of the defendant or appellant for the amount paid.
with interest, which shall be enforced by execution or otherwise.
And in case the judgment appealed from, shall, upon the trial thereof, be found to have been erroneous, it shall be reversed, and the
appellant shall recover his costs expended in the prosecution of such
appeal, and the court shall render such judgment as the justice ought
to have rendered, and the court shall also render judgment for the
appellee for the amount ascertained to he due him, if any be so nscertained, and the costs expended before the justice, hut shall allow to
the appellant credit for any part thereof that he shall have paid, und
if the appellant shall have paid, by reason of the rendition of the
judgment appealed from, more than the amount due the appellee
and the cost hefore the justice, there shall be a judgment of restitution for the same, which shall be enforced by execution or otherwise, and the said court as to all matters not herein provided for,
shall make such order or gh·e such judgment as the very right of
the case requires.
I V. That if the appellant make oath that from local prejudice or
other cause, he believes that he can not have justice done him. upon
the trial of the appeal in the county in which such appeal urn~· lK>
· pending, the court shall remove or transfer the appeal to the county
court of an adjoining county, to he then· docketed and tried. J

hi.

St11y '!f pr11c,·,,,li119.~ i11 rrrt a i» cos,·s .
• \ .. ts

l:!4.

tkk'!. di.

ltl.
:! II..\ )I.~3 W. Vu. :J9:i.

6. Wbenever it. shall he mude to appear to a circuit court. or tn
the judge thereof in vacation, that a stay of proceedings in n <·ast•
therein pending, should he had. until the decision of some other nction, suit, or proceeding in the same, or another court, such court
or judge shall make an order staying proceedings therein, upon such
terms as may he prescribed in the order.
Bnt no application for
such stay shall he entertained in vucat ion until reusounhle nor ice
thereof has been served upon tilt> opposite party.
7. A release to, or an accord ancl satisfaction with one joint trespasser, hereafter executed or had, shall not inure to the benefit of

Digitized by

Google

CH. rn1 .J

Fns

861

OF 0FFICERR.

another such trespasser, and shall he no bar to an action or suit against
such other joint trespasser for the same cause of action to which the
release or accord and satisfaction relates.
8. Where judgments have been rendered since the twenty-fourthit·:,J~t11l8'i'.!-3,
day of :'\larch, one thousand eight hundred and seventy-three, or may i~;t 1882. ell.
hereafter he rendered in actions r.« ddicto against several persons
jointly, and satisfaction of said judgments has been, or may be, made
by any one or more of the said parties, the others shall be liable .to
contribution to the same extent as if the judgments were upon actions F.,· cont rnct u,

cxxxvn.

CHAPTER

(As rt>vin·d. unn-udvd nnd r,•-t•1111ctt-d. 84·1! .\els 1882. ch. 129.
OJo' TIU:

>

I

1-'EJo:~ OJo' OJo'lo'ICER8.

Rr:c.
SEc.
I. SPcr••lnn uf stuu-.
lll. I ,
.
.
.
2. Otlu-r offkt•r,.. 111 r1•1• .. iv« ,,.,.,. 11s follows:
:ll. i 1- .. ,.s of Justic·,•s Ill crhumul Clll!lt'S.
3. xurv .. vnr.
·~1. 1-'«'l's of 1•011st11hlc>s in crimiuu! 1mst'r1.
4. ~,,tnr\ public.
'..?".!. l''ws of jnilns
In civil and ,•rlmlnnl
fi. C 01111111,-sion•·rs of c•cmrts.
cnst'i<,
1
6. l'.0111111b,;io11Prs". ·f 11,·1·011111;..
P:1n1w11t to offl.c\t'rs out of t lu- trousurv,
i
c ·J,.rk of .-ount v ,•ourl
·•1 I
·
: For rormer law
R: I 'Ink of l'ireult 1'.01irt
to
llow ,,.,.,. nrr- di11r1ei•<l 1111(1 f,•,• hills on the subject,
9. l']nk of ,•ourt of lhnit••il j11risclit-tio11.
j :?I\.
nnuh- out.
of tbi11 clmpl~·r.
10. l'h•rk vr ,·ourt of 11p1w11l,..
'!i. 1 How hills a n- 111:tcll'olll for ft•t',., du .. de- Sf'l' Code
\ a.
11. Slwrilf.
~- 1 ceasr-d vlvrk ,
l!WJ.ch. lst. For
12. .I usti,•t•s.
'.~ I
. ·
other
refl'N'n·
13. l'nnstnhlt's.
to , Huw r.. ,. hills ur,• colleclt•cl 1111cl 1te-c,.i,;, !ll't'
Sl'C·
l-1
('Ollllt•·cl for.
tlou s,
f,'t't' UlllS of jusliCt'S s ml C'Olli'fllhlPI'.

I

12:t

0•

I

;~. i

f

aa I

Secret« r.11 tJj state.
1. Tb(! secretary may charge for services rendered in his office the
1~~..?-a,
following fees to be paid by the person to whom the service is ren- ~~t~h·1~}
dered, at the time it is done:
129.
For a testimonial . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
tl 50
For a copy of any paper, if on~ sheet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I 00
And for each sheet after the first. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
75
For issuing a commission to a commissioner in any other state. 5 00
For issuing a commission to each notary public... . .
2 50
For making out a requisition for a fugitive from justice demanded of the executive authority of another state. . . . ~ OU
For issuing a warmnt for the arrest of a fugitive from justice
demanded by the executive authority of another state ... 2 00

i'o~\'1

ch.

~h.

Uther offic,•rs.

2. Kach of the other officers mentioned in this chapter may, for .\cts 1882. ch.
129·
services performed by virtue of his office, demand and recei\:e the
ft>es hereinafter provided for.
A ,111r,·,·ynr.
:3. For all surveying actually done (unless by speciul conActs 187'.?-:J. ch.
10. S 2. 3.
tract), for the first one hundred poles. or any less distance,
Id. ch. 51. f 2.
Acts 188'.!. ch.
long measure, per pole
$ 01 129.
After the first one hundred poles, long measure, per pole.. . .
0!
For tracing and examining old surveys to ascertain the true bear-

Digitized by

Google

FEEe or

862

[CB. 137.

OFFICERS.

ing of lines, their distances and courses, or tor doing surveying in
and about any mines, cities, towns and villages, the surveyor may
charge three dollars for every day necessarily so employed, in lieu
of charging by the pole: Proridnl, That nothing in this section shall
prevent any party having surveying done, making u contract for a
different compensation.
For calculating the quantity of less than six courses or lines .. $ 50
When land is divided, for calculating each division if less than
six courses. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
50
For every course or line of more than six. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
0:3
For making a plat of six courses or less. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
50
For every course more than six . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
03
For recording a plat and certificate, if not more than six courses.
r>O
For any course above six. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
o:3
For a copy of a plat and certificate, where there are not more
than six courses .... ; . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
50
For every course above six . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
03
For a copy of an entry. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
50
l"or every search where no copy is required.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
:?5
For giving receipt. for any paper. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
15
For traveling to the place of surveying and returning, per mile.
or>
If surveying be done at ditrerent places, on the same tour, the
mileage shall be apportioned among the different surveys according
to their distance from tile residence of the surveyor or deputy and
each other, so that the surYcyor shall not receive more than five
cents a mile for going and returning for any one trip.
Acts 187'.!·3, ch.
10. § ...

Ill. ch. 51. i 3.

,\N:4
1:.-'9.

I&!:!,

ch

Ac-ts Jl(j:!-:t. ch.

t~·. ~.~: ~-r. ~ 4.

s:

tH--tJ. l'h.

A 11otar.lJ puMic.
4. When there is a protest by him, for the record thereof,
making out instrument of protest under his official seal and
notice of dishonor to one person besides the maker of a
note or acceptor of a bill.
$1 00
10
For every additional notice
.
For taking and certifying the acknowledgment of any deed or
writing, or taking and certifying the privy examination
and acknowledgment of a married woman
.
For administering and certifying an oath, unless it he the uffldavit of a witness
.
For taking and certifying utllduvits or depositions of witnesses
(except as provided in chapter sixty-six of this code) at
the rate for each hour actually employed in taking- the
same, of..........
. . .. .. .. .. . . .. . . .. .. .. .. .. . . .. .
;:,
For other services, the same fees as are allowed by law to the
clerk of the circuit court for similar services.
( 'ommi.'l.'li"n,·r.~ '!( rou rt s,
5. For any service, such fC'es ns the court of which he is commissioner ma)" from time to time prescribe (except us provided in chapter sixty-six of this code), not exceeding seventy-five cents where

Digitized by

Google

Cn. 137.J

863

FEES OF OFFICERS.

less than an hour is employed, and if more than an hour be employed,
not exceeding the rate of seventy-five cents for each hour, or in lieu
thereof, twenty cents per hundred words, as the commissioner may.
elect.
.A commissioner returning a report shall annex thereto a certificate, under oath, that he was actually and necessarily employed
for a number of hours, to be stated therein, in performing the services for which the fees stated at the foot thereof are charged. Until
such certificate is made, no such fees shall be allowed or paid.
.A
commissioner shall not be compelled to make out or return a report
until his fees therefor be paid or security given him to pay so much
as may he adjudged right by the court to whom the report is to be
returned, or if it be a circuit court, by the judge thereof in vacation, '
unless the court or judge see cause to order it to be made out and
returned without such payment or security, and shall so order.
c~u111nti11siu11l'/'8 of occmmt».
fi. For services rendered by any commissioner of accounts, the Act..
same compensation shall be allowed for similar services as are herein t:.'9.
allowed to commissioners of courts.

· 1882. ch.

Cterk of the county court.
7. When a writing is admitted to record by the clerk of the Acts 1872·3, cb.
to. I 8.
Id. ch. 51. I 5.
county court:
(S.•1• Aet11 1875,
ch. 100.l
For receiving proof or acknowledgment thereof, entering orAds 1882, ch.
I~.
ders, writing on it clerk's certificate, statement of deeds in
list entered in order book, posting same, and embracing
it in list for assessor, and indexing in general index .....
50
For recording in the deed book such writing, and nil matter
'therewith (except plats) or for recording anything not
otherwise provided, whether in the deed book or elsewhere,
for every thirty words. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
03
In lieu of the said allowance of three cents for every thirty words,
the clerk may, for recording in the deed book elect to charge the
following specified fees, to-wit:
Where the writing is a deed of trust or mortgage or is a conveyance of real and personal estate,' or of real estate
only.............
.
·
:II 75
Where it is not such
.
50
For recording a plat of not more than six courses, or for a copy
.thereof
.. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..
.. . . .. ...
50
For every course above six. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
03
},'or recording, indexing and noting release of lien. . . . . . . . . .
50
For swearing the witnesses, and entering in the order or minute
book all orders in relation to the proof of a will which is
admitted to record without contest, and copying such order on the will or on a paper annexed thereto, when fully
proved and hut one order.. . . . . . . . . . . . .
.. .. .. .. ..
76
If but partially proved on one day, for the order and entering
the same on the will or paper annexed thereto. . . . . . . . . .
50

Digitized by

Google

864

FEES

O}'

Cu. 137.

OFFICERS.

And for each subsequent order and entering the same on the
will or paper annexed thereto. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For the same services where there is a contest ... ·. . . . . . .
'For recording a will and the matter recorded therewith in the
will book, at the option of the clerk, three cents for every
thirty words, or a specific fee of
:
For entering orders and transmitting papers in case of an
appeal............................
.. .. .. . .. .. .. ..
If there be an order committing a decedent's estate to an officer, for entering and copying such order and the orders
of appraisement. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
If any personal representative or guardian qualify, for administering necessary oaths, making out bond, entering and
copying on the will, order granting probate or administration, making out copy of such order for personal representative or guardian, entering and copying orders of
appraisement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
If several personal representatives qualify on the satne estate
at the same time or term, only the same fee shall be charged
as if one had qualified, to-wit. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For entering and copying an order granting a license to keep a
hotel or tavern where spirituous liquors are not sold. ; . . .
For entering and copying an order granting a license to keep a
hotel or tavern where spirituous liquors are sold, administering oath and taking bond . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
On application for a marriage license, for administenng and writing certificate of oath, issuing and registering license and
recording and giving receipt for certificate of marriage ...
For a search for anything in his office over a year's standing. .
Fur recording a certificate and posting a copy thereof under the
second section of chapter sixty-one of the code. . . . . . . . .
For docketing, under chapter one hundred and thirty-nine of
this code, a judgment, decree, bond or recognizance. . . . .
lfor re-docketing the same when required.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For making out a transcript of the record and proceedings in
any case in due form, so that the same may be used in an
appellate court, for every thirty words, three cents; and
for making out in any other manner than copying, any
paper to go out of the office which is not otherwise provided for, the same; or in lieu thereof, if the clerk elect,
a specific fee of
:.. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..
For any copy, if it be not otherwise provided for. three cents
for every thirty words, or in lieu thereof, if the clerk elect,
a specific fee of. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For annexing the seal of the court to any paper, writing the
certificate of the clerk accompanying it, and writing eertiflcate for president of the court or judge, if the clerk be
required to do so.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
, .. .. ..

Digitized by

Google

50
2 00

50
75

50

1 00

1 no
1

on

2 00

·1 oo
25
50
:15

::Ja

aO
:-J5

50

Cu. 137.J

865

FEES OJ,' Ot'}'ICERS.

•

For recording and tiling an inventory or sale hill, three cents
for every thirty words, or at the option of the clerk, a
specific fee of. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For entering an order confirming the report of a fiduciary.. . .
For recording such report and the matter recorded therewith,
for every thirty words, three cents; or in lieu thereof, if
the clerk elect, a. specific fee of. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For recording any bond required by law to be recorded, including the certificate or other evidence of its execution . . .
For recording a mechanic's lien, three cents for every thirty
words; or at the option of the clerk, a specific fee of. . . .
For recording a certificate of real estate claimed as a homestead
For administering any oath not before provided for, and writing
certificate thereof where the case requires one.. . . . . . . . .
A d,,,./.·

o/

50
50

50
50
50
50
15

,.;,.!'uil court,

8. For issuing an attachment, or a summons to answer a bill,
with an endorsement thereon of an injunction, or order
of attachment, and recording the same
$
Every order of publication, including the taking of the necessary affldavit thereof, <lelivering the same to the printer,
posting copy at the door of the court house, and the making
of the affidavit thereof
. 1
For process for which no other fee is allowed. . . . . . . . . . . . ..
For each copy of a process which goes out of the office (with
such process) to be used in serving it, one half the fee for
issuing such process.
For issuing summons for witnesses
.
For every copy of such summons . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
.
For noting in the process book any decree, order or process,
und taking receipt therefor
.
For postage paid by the clerk on any decree, order or process,
and putting in or taking out of the post-office the same,
three times the amount of such postage.
For entering in any suit, or in a motion for judgment for money,
all the attorneys for each party, or the appearance in
proper person of a party having no attorney, who so appears...... . . . .
.
.
Fur endorsing and filing each petition, declaration, bill, answer,
or other written pleading, each hill of exceptions, each
written notice of the defence relied on in ejectment, or of
a motion for judgment for money, and each report of a
commissioner. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
.
If when a bill, answer or report of a commissioner is filed,
there he filed therewith any exhibit in which the clerk is
required by law to endorse the names of the parties nod
the day it is filed, and he does so endorse them, for every
such exhr hit ...•..................................

At~I" 187"J-3, ch.
10, i IU.
hi. di. f>l,§6.

75

t~~"

I~.

ch.

00
40

25
15
25

10

15

10

Digitized by

Google

...... ,

866

FEES OF 0Jo'FICERS.

•

[CH. 137.

For endorsing and filing all the depositions and affidavits of
witnesses filed on the same side, or all written interrogatories from one party to another, or all the answers filed
to such interrogatories, or the exceptions filed by' either
party, to a commissioners report. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
If papers be filed on the side of the plaintiff', for which no particular fee is allowed, a fee (not for each, but for the
whole) of. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
So also, if papers be filed on the side of the defendant, for
which no particular fee is allowed, a fee (not for each,
but for the whole of such papers) of. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For issuing a scir»fucius and recording the return, where proper
to do so ..... ·.............
. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .
For issuing an attachment, with a copy of the rule or order for
the same (if sent out therewith) and recording the return
thereof, where proper to do so. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For entering in the rule hook the return of all process returnable the same day, a fee (not for each defendant named
therein, nor for every such process, but for the whole of
the defendants named in all such process) of.. • . . • . . . . .
For all the rules entered in any case on the same side at the
rules for one month, when anything is done on such side
at said rules, besides entering or filing a pleading or continuing the case.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
.. . . .. .. . . . . . .
Where no proceedings are bad in any case during any rules except to continue it, the fee shall be at the rate of twentyfive cents for every quarter of a year the case is so continued and no more.
For docketing and continuing a cause at each term in which
there is no other order, except to continue the cause, or
where a cause is continued by operation of law.
Where a jury is impaneled, for swearing the jury and witnesses........
.. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..
Where no jury is impaneled, if witnesses be examined hy the
court, for swearing such witnesses for either party. . . . . .
Where a witness claims for his attendance, for udministerlng
an oath to him and certifying such attendance. . . . . . . . . .
For all judgments, decrees, orders and proceedings (except entries of pleadings and matters otherwise provided for) at
the election of the clerk, three cents for every thirty words
actually written in the order hook! or a specific fee in each
case of...........................................
For taxing costs in any case, on one side. . . . . . . . . .
.And if the case has been pending more than one year, then for
every additional year. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For issuing an execution, the entry in the execution book and
the record of the return . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For making out a transcript of the record and proceedings in

Digitized by

Google

60

25

25
7f>

50

50

50

50

,a
25
:JO

50

20
1O
50

CH. 137.]

867

FEES OJ' 0FJo'ICER8.

any case in due form, so that the same may be used in an
appellate court, for every thirty words, three cents; and
for making out in any other manner than copying, uny
paper to go out of the office, which is not otherwise provided for, the sume ; or in lien thereof, if the clerk elect,
a specific fee of
_. .
For any copy, if it be not otherwise provided for, three cents
for every thirty words, or in lieu thereof, if the clerk elect,
a specific fee of. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For annexing the seal of the court to any paper, writing the
certificate of the clerk nccornpanying it, .and writing certificate for the judge of the court. if the clerk he required
to do so
_ .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..
For a writ of .omp,:rsPdntH or other writ issued on an appeal to
the circuit court. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For making out the bond, if one be required, upon issuing
such writ, administering oaths and taking proper affidavits
_ . . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .
Upon any such writ, for endorsing and filing the petition therefor, or when the writ is returned, for filing it with the return thereof.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
When the clerk of the court of appeals issues process on an
appeal, writ of error or «u perecdeu«, for making out the
bond, administering necessary oaths and writing proper
affidavits, and endorsing on the process u certitlcate of the
execution of the bond, and of the names of the sureties
therein. . . . . . .
.
1
After a decision by the circuit court or court of appeals as an
appellate court, for issuing an execution, making entry
thereof in the execution book and recording return.. . . . ·
For taxing the damages to which a party may he entitled by
reason of an injunction, appeal, writ of error or .rnpt:r.sf·
d eas

.

50

.to

50
50

50

~O

on
75

50

For making out an injunction bond, administering all the necessary oaths, and writing the eertiflcates thereof, and endorsing on the summons that such bond is given. . . . . . . . l 00
For making out any bond under the provisions of chapter one
hundred and six of this code, administering the oaths and
writing the certificates in relation thereto, and for all that
is necessary to be done in relation thereto. . . . . . . . . . . . . . l 00
For making out any other bond not otherwise provided for, adruinistering all necessary oaths and writing certificates
thereof... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
50
For any service not before provided for, the same fee as a clerk of
a county court for similar services.
( 'lerk« of courts of limit,·d j11n',<!.dic1i,111.

,\cti- isre-a eh.

H. The clerks of courts of limited jurisdiction created in incorpo-

Digitized by

t:J.7ch. 1~.

Google

868

[Cu. 137.

FEES OF OFFICERS.

rated cities, towns and villuges, shall have the same fees for their
services as clerks of the circuit courts for similar purposes.
f'lnl.· ,if tlu· c1111rt of IIJ>J>,·al.~ .
. \•:!;".1R119. p.t,,....!:
I II. For filing the record
I><, ...,-3, ch. 10, Si ,
•
11.
•
I· or docketing an appeal to
Iii. ch. al. § 8.
v
.
l
-~··ts 1s.':t.!. <'11. r or entering [ur gment on
J.'9.

upon an uppeal
$1 Oo
he charged hut once. . . . . . . . . . . . I 110
l
an appeal, for every thirty wore s,
three cents. or the clerk may charge a specific fee of.. . . 1 ftO
For all other services not herein provided for, the clerk shall have
the same fees as the clerk of a circuit court for similar services.
Slwrij}"x .

. \ct,- IM'i'.!-:i. eh.
to,~ I:!.
lei. r•h. fil. ~ 9.
.\c-ts 188:!, ch.
l:.'Y.
:JO W. \'ll 9fi.

ll

For serving: on any person a declaration in ejectment, or
an order, notice, summons or other process where the body
is not taken, and making return thereof
$ 75
Except that the fee for summoning a witness shall be
.
For serving on any person an attachment or other process under
which the body is taken.... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
on
For levying an attachment on real estate and making his return :l on
For making any other levy
1 110
For carrying n prisoner to or from jail, for each mile of neces05
sary travel either in goiug or returning
.
For taking any bond
.
When a jury is sworn in court, for summoning and impaneling
such jury . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I oo
For serving a writ of possession
.
For serving a writ of distringns on n judgment or decree for
personal property, if the specific thing he taken.. . . . . . .
:>o
For keeping and supporting any live stock distrained or levied on
as follows:
For a horse or mule, if well fed on grain and hay or fodder,
thirty-five cents per day; but if the same he kept on pasture, twelve
cents per day, or such other sum in either case us the county court may
from time to time prescribe.
But if a mare so levied on and kept,
haven sucking colt, no fee shall be allowed for keeping the colt.
For a hog, five cents per day.
For each head of cattle, five cents per day.
For sheep and goats, each, one nnd one-half cents per day.
The ofllcer shall be re-paid any necessary expense incurred h)· him
in keeping property not before mentioned, or in removing any property; and when, after distruining or levying, he neither sells nor rc-ceives payment, and either takes no bond or takes one which is not
forfeited, he shall, if guilty of no default, have (in addition to the
sixty cents for a bond, if one was taken) u foe or three dollars, uuh-ss
this he more than half of what his commission would have amounted
to if he hall received puyment ; in which case he shall (whether a
bond was taken or not) have a fee of sixty cents at the least. and so
much more ns is necessary to muke the said half of his commissions.
The commission to be included in a forthcoming bond (when one
.

Digitized by

Google

CH. 137.J

869

FEES OF OFFICERS.

is taken) shall be five per centum on the first three hundred dollars of
the money for which the distress or levy is made, and two per centum
on the residue of said money; but such commission shall not Le received in whole or in part, except us hereinbefore provided, unless
the bond be forfeited, or the amount (including the commission) be
paid to the plnintlft.
,
An officer receiving payment in money, or selling property, shall
have the like commission of five per centum on the first three hundred dollars of the money paid or proceeds from such sale, and two per
centum on the residue, except that when such payment or sale is on
an execution on a forthcoming bond, his commission shall be only
half what it would be if the execution were not on such bond.

12. Every justice of the peace shall L<.> entitled to charge and
cei ve the following fees, viz:
For summons to commence a suit.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
$
For every copy thereof. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For every additional summons in same action. . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For a copy thereof. . . . . . . . . . . . . .
.. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .
For docketing an action commenced by appearance and agreement
.
For issuing order of arrest, order of commitment, or order of
attachment . . . . . .
. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .
For every subprena for a witness. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For order of arrest against delinquent witnesses or jurors, or in
any case of contempt, and for trial and judgment in such
case......
.. .. .. . . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. .. .
For swearing each witness, arbitrator or party.
.. .. .. .. ..
For taking and certifying any affidavit in writing, twenty cents,
or ten cents per hundred words, at the option of. the justice.
For every continuance . . . . . . . . .
.. .. .. .. .. ..
For appointing a guardian for the suit of an infant plaintiff or
defendant .... ~. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For appointing special constables at request of either party...
For settling and allowing interrogatories. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
r'or entering agreement for urbitrntion . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For summons to arbitrators
·. . . . . . . . . . . . .
For every hond filed in the suit. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For venire for jury, including the drawing for the same . . . . .
For trying a jury case. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For trying n case without a jury. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For entering judgment.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For abstract of judgment for docketing in the otHce of the clerk
of the county court. . . . . . . .
.. .. .. .. . . ..
For transferring a judgment on <locket.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
:For entering satisfaction of judgment. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

re-

.\l..'t,. tH6..'i.p.~.

{f..!·3. ah.

JO.

*

"0 .\•~ts
IJ. eh.IR'i5.~h.1i8.
M. i 10.
~
1 U 1882. ch.
15
10

l:!9.

:w
25
10

75
05

10
lO
2f>

:m
Io
15
25
25
75
50
25
:!5
25
lO

Digitized by

Google

870

[CH. 137.

FEES 01" O•'FICERS.

For issuing execution and entering return thereof on his
docket......
.. ..
... .. .. .. .. .. . .. .. .. . . . .. .. .
For issuing every additional execution. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For entering stay of execution
.. .. .. ..
For trying right of property levied on or attached. . . . . . . . . . .
For taxing costs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
For every process or order not otherwise provided for. . . . . . . .
For trunscript from docket, and other writings and copies not
otherwise provided for, twenty-five cents, or ten cents per
hundred words, ut the option of the justice.
For transmitting or delivering papers to clerk of the circuit
court in case of an appeal
.
For taking and certifying acknowle lgment of deed or other instrument of writing. . . .
.
.
1f executed by a married woman, twenty-five cents in addition
for certifying her examination and ncknowledgruent.
For taking depositions of witnessess, if done in an hour or less.
If not done in an hour, for any additional time at the rate per
hour, of......
.. .. . .. ..
.
.
For taking an inquest on a dead body, to be audited and paid
from the treasury of the county
. 5

40
20
20
50
20
25

50
25

75
7;)
00

F,•t:s ()/ constables.
Aei,.. tMlti.p.'.!W.
1~:!-:i, ch. IU. ~
t141.

c. r 11. nt. ~ II.
Al'ls t&!'.!, ch.
1·~

~·

13. For removinz a person bv virtue of a warrant issued under
o
·'
the thirteenth section of chapter forty-six, to be charged to the
county~ court of the county, five cents for each mile of necessary•
travel, going and returning.
For service and return of summons to commence a suit, and
for every additional summons.. . . . . . . . .
.
:f 40
For serving and returning order of attachment, twenty cents
for each garnisbee summoned, and one dollar for taking
property, including inventory and appruiseruent, besides
the reasonable expenses of removing, securing and keeping the property attached
For subpo-na, for each person served therewith.. . . . . . . . . . . .
:!5
For summoning a jury and return of venire.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
75
For levying an execution on personal property and return.. . .
30
For posting notices of sale. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
-lO
For money made under execution or attachment and paid to
the party entitled thereto, five per cent.
For serving and returning other writs and notices not specified
in this section,. each. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
!">O
For executing a writ of possession under section two hundred
and thirty-five of chapter fifty. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ~ OU
For summoning a jury and witnesses for inquest on a dead
body, to he audited und paid frow the treasury of the county :1 oo
For services not ot herwise provided for, the same fees as
sherifts for similar cases.

Digitized by

Google

UH. 137.J

871

FEES OF OFFICERS.

}',,,, bill« of [ustice« ,rnd co11.'ilal,l11~.
14. }~xcept where it is otherwise provided, the fee bills of justices 1~~ ~.r·\~~0·
and constables shall he chargeable to the persons at whose instance
or request the services were rendered,
Such officers may issue their
fee bills against the person so chargeable, and pince them in the
hands of any constable of the county in which the persons against
whom they are issued respectively reside. The officer collecting the
same may retain for his compensation ten per cent. on the amount
collect and paid over to the officer entitled thereto. . The succeeding
sections of this chapter, as far as they are applicable, shall govern
as to making out and collecting fee bills issued by a justice or constable.
15. 1f any justice or constable issue a fee bill for any service i~~ ~~i~?t.
against any person not chargeable therewith, or for a greater amount
than the law allows, he shall pay to the person against whom the
same is issued, four times the amount so unlawfully charged, which
may he recovered by such person before any court or any justice,
not interested, having jurisdiction.
16. For any service rendered by virtue of his office, for which a hi.
fee· is allowed by law, except fees ohargeable to the State or county,
the justice or constable may require the proper fee to he paid before
the service is rendered.
17. The justice shall keep a fee hook, or a memorandum or ac- r.r.
count upon his docket, so as to show underneath the title of each
suit, the costs made by each party, separately, for services rendered
at the instance or request of such party; and also, to whom the same
are due, whether to himself, the constable, witnesses, or other persons; and shall note, from time to time, which of the items are paid,
so far as the facts may come to his knowledge.
l H. The costs to he included in the judgment or execution are 1.i.
those made only by the party in whose favor the judgment is rondored, and which have been paid by him, or which he is hound to
pay, if the same be not collected from the ndverse party. But the
costs made by the party against whom the judgment is rendered, awl
which lie is bound to pay, may he separately endorsed or noted on
the execution, which shall then, as far as such costs are concerned,
he equivnlent to u fee hill. When costs are included in an execution,
or endorsed or noted thereon, it shall show the sum due each person,
whether [ustice, constable, witness, or other person; and the costs so
noted on the execution shall he collected and accounted for hy the
officer in whose bands the execution is. at the s:\me time and in the
same manner as the costs included in the execution.
l!l. Every justice shall he entitled to the following fees in crim- .\cts tH63.p.:.::J8.
l~..!.,_·h. l:?ll.
inal cases and proceedings before him, to he charged and recovered
as provided hy the two hundred and twenty-seventh and two hundred uud twenty-ninth sections of chapter fifty:

Digitized by

Google

872

[Cu. 13,.

}.""'EES OF 0t-'FICERS.

Fot' every recognizance or hond to keep the peace, or he of good
behavior
$ 50
For every warrant of arrest, or commitment. . . . . . . . .
30
For docketing case on return of warrant of arrest executed. . .
30
For all services rendered at the instance of the defendant, the
same fees shall he charged as are allowed for similar services in civil cases.
For trial before n jury. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
75
For trial without a jury. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
50
For every subpu-na for one or more witnesses
.. .. .. .. ..
:W
For every copy thereof. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
10
For every warrant to summon a jury.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
50
For swearing a jury. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
.. .. .. .. .. .. ..
:!5
For swearing witnesses, ten cents each.
For enteing his judgment on bis docket and taxing the costs . .
50
For issuing execution.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
.. .. .. .. .. .. ..
25
For granting an appeal, including taking the bond or recognizance, making and certifying a transcript. of his docket,
and transmitting the same and the papers in the case to
the clerk of the circuit court, ten cents for every hundred
words, or in lieu thereof, a specific fee of. . . . . . . . . . . . .
,5
In all other cases the fees allowed in civil cases by law to other
county officers for similar services.
i~!. ~.~\L!i,~-w. :W. A justice shall be entitled in cases not otherwise provided
for, to the following fees, which shall be audited and paid by the
county court as other claims against the county.
For the warrant to arrest the person or persons accused, and
take him before a justice for examination. including the
summoning of witnesses.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
:!a
For the examination of witnesses to ascertain whether such
warrant ought to be issued, and against whom.. . . . . . . .
50
For the examination when the accused is apprehended and
brought before him. . . . . . . . . . . . . .
.. .. .. .. .. .. ..
r>O
For recognizance of hail, warrant of commitment, or discharge
of the accused . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
50
For recognizance of witnesses, each. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1o
For a search warrant. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
50
F',;,:.~ of crmstal,l,,s iu criminal r,,x,•s.
~l. For an arrest in case of felony. . . . . .
.
tl oo
.\els J!'C!"J. eh.
I~.
For au arrest in cases other than felony. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
f;u
For serving a subpo-na , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
.. . .. .. .. .
20
For executing n. search warrant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
oo
For services not otherwise provided for, the same fees tLS allowed
to sheriffs.
ln cases of search warrants, und proceedings under chapter 01w
hundred and fifty-six of this cod«, the f P<'S of constables shall llt'
chnrgeahle to the eounty, and shall he audited and pnid as other
claims of like nature by the county court. In criminal cases, other

Digitized by

Google

CH. 137.]

873

FEES OF 0FFH'F:RS.

than felony, such fees shall he charged and paid as provided in sections two hundred and twenty-seven and two hundred and twentynine of chapter fifty of this code.

Ftl',.., c~f jt1ilf'I'.,; in l,otl, <'it·il t111d f'rimin,,l c11R1·.~.
2~. For receiving n person in jail,· twontv-five
cents, and the like Acti•~. p, 4.
~
1~7'.!.3, ch. IO, ~
sum for discharging him therefrom.
15. :11.
•
,
}
1«I vh , 51. ~ I:!.
For keeping awl supporting a person confined m [nil, for each < uy, :!4.
. ,
•m the <1·iscretion
•
f
h
1
l
1
,
fl
IRH"-. ch.
o t e court, a sum not ess t ran t nrty- ve cents .\els
1:.>u.
1&47, ch. 56.
nor more t h nu fif ty cents.
Tpon the affldnvit of the jailer, the county court shall allow him,
ont of the county treasury, the amount actually paid for fuel neces.
sury in heating the jail.
For attendance upon the circuit and county courts, and acting as
janitor of the court house, he shall he allowed not exceeding one
hundred and fifty dollars per annum, to he ascertained and fixed hy
the county court and paid out of the county treasury.
]n cases of f<'lony, the ft>(•s of the jailer shall he paid out of the ,
state treasury.
J n cuses of misdemeanor they shall lw paid out of
the county treasury ; and in civil eases hy the party at whose instance
n pf'rRon is committed to jail.
of flu· tr,-,,..wry.
:!:·l. • There shall he paid out of the treasury to clerks and sheriffs, i~i'.'1; 1·:t r.11.
the following fees, after the same are duly certified to the auditor, ~~!:,~h-1~~-~ ;1;,
viz:
1-:..'\l.
To a clerk of a circuit court for services rendered the State in a
civil case, such fees as would be chargeable for the like services of
an individual.
To a sheriff or other otlicer, for an arrest for felony, one dollar;
and for conveying any person' charged with or convicted of felony,
to jail, or from one jail to another. or to the penitentiary, for each
mile in going and returning, ten cents.
The officer shall also he allowed for the support of the prisoner during the removal and for
assistance to make the arrest or etrect ~he removal, such charge ns
may have been necessarily incurred by him, to be shown by his own
uflldavit, if living, or if In- be dead by the affidavit of some credible
person; and where be has assistance, by the arlldavit also of each
person employed by him, or hy such of them us may he alive and
within the jurisdiction of the court, and if none of them he alive or
within the jurisdiction of the «ourt, tlu- court may allow such claim
upon his own affidavit; such charge for assistance, not to exceed
where it is making an arrest, one dollar per day for each person employed to assist him; and not to exceed where it is in conveying a
priaoner, ten cents prr mill' goinl! und returning, for each guard; for
impnneliug a jury in cnse of Ielony, one dollar: and executing a sentence of death, five dollars in addition to the expenses actually incurred by the oflicer in its execution.
J>".'/lllf·11t f11 offic,-r:< 011f

1f

Digitized by

Google

874

H()tr /,,,,_.,
i~l:a'.~:

[CH.

FEES OF OFFICERS.
a.rr

clmrg,·d mu/ ({'('. /,ills nuul«

137.

11111.

'~l~

24. The fees mentioned in this chapter shall he chargeable to the
party• at whose instance the service is performed; except the fees for
entering and certifying the attendance of witnesses and proceedings
to compel payment for such attendance, shall be charged to the party
for whom the witness attended, and except also, as follows: ~o clerk
shall charge for taking bond from, administering oaths to, or copying orders as to the appointment or qualification of any county,
school or district ottlcer, or for tiling the bonds or oaths of any such
officer, nor for making or copym~ orders as to county levies or grand
juries and administering the necessary oaths.
~o sheriff shall charge
for serving such or any other public orders nor for summoning and
impaneling grand juries.
No clerk or sheriff shall receive payment
10 Grntr. 006. out of the treasury for any service rendered in case of the State, except where it is allowed hy law.
1~~'~":.~~-a, ch, !!5 . Every clerk of a court shall keep a fee hook, wherein shall he
~~:,~\~} !t. entered the fees for every service performed by him, and the fact of
t:.'R
such fees heing paid, or of a bill being made out therefor, whichever
shall happen first. The fee hooks of a clerk shall he submitted to
the inspection of commissioners appointed to examine the clerk's
office.
A•·t,- 187'.!-:t ch.
26. No person shall he compelled to 1>nv.J anv., fees before mentioned.
10, ~ 21.
•
hi vh, r;1. i 1~. until there he produced to him a fee hill signed by the officer to
,\cts 1!4i5.,·l1.,I.
11m. ch. Ill.
whom the foes are due, expressing the particulars for which such
·~~- l'h. t:.'9.
,l
fees are c h argm l . Anc 1 no - sue h f ee l >1·11 s b a 11 1 >e mane
out for any
service not previously performed, except as hereinafter provided.
unless a person desire to pay before such performance. in which case
there shall be mentioned in such fee bill the nature of the service
and the fact that it is to he performed.
Xor shall nn officer, for any
service, make out a fre bill for more than is allowed therefor.
Xor
shall he, for the same service, attempt to obtain payment a second
time; nor ever make out a fee hill a second time, unless he endorse
the fact and swear that the former hill remains unpaid.
For each
item in which an oftlcer shall violate this section, he shall forfeit five
dollars to any person prosecuting therefor, and the circuit court or
the county in which an officer resides, may on motion, after reasonsble notice to him! quash any fe(• hill made out hy him contrary to
law.
But any officer may demand his fees in ndvance for any partleular service required to he performed hy him for any person not
residing in his county, and if such f<><'s he not paid or secured to him,
the officer may refuse to perform the service until they are paid or
secured.
In such cases the fet~ hill shall state the nature of. the
service, and that it is to he performed.
113 to ui.
. .
Id. r-h, !',). ~ 13.
Arts J!Q,l"~. eh,
l:.'9.

//,,,,. l,illx u rr n,,,,/,, ,,,,, f11r f("f" ... d11,· ,, ,/,,,.,,,,.'<t'd clrr]: .

27. "'hC'n u clerk dies, his sueoessor shall charge in the fe<> hooks
1,i". ,.1;":"r,1. ~ 1,1. of the clot ks otti<'e. such lawful f<•e"I as ,lo not appear to have hN-n
i~;'.' IH8'.!. '"11· charged therein, for services performed hy the decedent, and make
. ,,.,,.. 1r..?-:t eh.
10 S ... ,

Digitized by

Google

.CH. 137.J

FEF:s

875

OF OFFICERS.

out fee bills for such fees, and also for nny fees charged on the said
books by the decedent for which he does not appear to have made out
fee bills in his life time; except that such of those as appear to said
successor to he for more than is allowed by law, shall be reduced by
him so far as in his judgment, is necessary to make them legal.
28. The fee bills made out under the preceding section, shall show .\els rsrs-a ch.
on their face that they for fees due the decedent, and shall be signed l?i·. !.;\1. ~ 17.
. successor, am l (l e 1 ·iverecl to t h e persona I representative
. o f sue h .\,·t"
t&!:4. ch.
l >Y lus
1:.'9.
decedent, as soon as practicable.
Such successor shall receive for
his services, under this and the preceding section, such compensation as the con rt whereof he is clerk, shall adjudge to be reasonable,
which shall be paid by said personal representative, or hy the officer
who may collect said fee bills, out of the first proceeds of said collection.
Hou:fa l.il]» ure collected ant] <t(:countnl for.
2H. Anv officer mentioned in this chapter, or the personal repre- Acts 187'.? -3, ch .
.,
.
10 * ., .
sentative of a deceased clerk may, on or before the first day of July 1..i'. ch."at. i Ht
in any year, deliver fee hills, duly signed, to any sheriff or collector 1~~'.1- l88".!, ch.
of the public taxes, who shall receive and endeaver to collect the
same.
A sheriff or collector may distrain therefor, or for any fee
bills due himself, such property of the person to whom the fees are
charged as might be levied on under a writ of jiPri fflt·i,,s against
him, except as hereinafter mentioned, and the twelfth, thirteenth and
fourteenth sections of chapter thirty of this code shall apply to such
fee hills in like manner as to taxes.
HO. Every sheriff or collector to whom such fee bills are so deliv- .\i.'.,,.. 187:!.3. ch.
ered, shall, on or he fore the first day of .Ianuury next after such de- 13·. ~~;\,1. § 10.
livery, account therefor with the officer or the personal representative 1~;~" l88'J, ch.
entitled thereto, hy returning such as he may not have collected, with
the endorsement thereon, of the words, "~o property found;" and by
paying to such officer or his legal representative, the amount of all
not so returned.
1 f he fail so to do, judgment may be obtained, on
motion, against such sheriff or collector, and his sureties, and his
and their personal representatives, or against any deputy who may
have signed the receipt for said fees, of his personal representative,
for the amount with which such sheriff, collector or deputy is chargeable, and damages thereon, not exceeding fifteen per centum per
annum, from the said first <lay of .Iannary till payment.
Such judgment may be on motion in the circuit court of the county in which
said sheriff or collector resides, and if the fees be due to the clerk of
the court of appeals, it may he in the circuit court of the county in
which the seat of government may be. On such motion any receipt
for fees mentioned in the notice a~ signed by any person, shall be
deemed to be his signature unless an affidavit he filed denying it, and
shall be primo faci1· evidence of the collection of all the fees men- Act,- t8i'.?·3, ch.
10, § 26.
tioned therein, not returned as aforesaid.
Ju. ch. at. i 20.
:-n. No fee shall be collected by distress or suit after five years i~;'.s l88".?, ch.
from the end of the rear ill which the service was done that is charged !rl:1·1~\1 ~.

Digitized by

Google

876

.\<'ts l!r...?·3.

~;:-_ ~\f~,~- ~

t;~~

[Cn.

COSTS GENERALLY.

!BS:!,

...... , ..; 111,:!-a.

1~i.~~i;\11.,

1

;~i~" ,~.

ms.

for therein, unless within two years before the institution of such
proceedings, it was returned by an officer with an endorsement thereon properly dated, showing that there was no property found out of
which to make it. And the clerk of the county court shall have for
all services not specially provided for in section seven of this chapter nor in the annual allowance for his salary or otherwise, the same
fees a clerk of the circuit court may have for similar services .
ch.
az . .An officer or witness to whom, for fees or attendance, any:!1. thing is due that is taxed in the costs for which there is judgment or
ch. decree, may, within ten days after such judgment or decree, lodge
in the clerk's office of the court wherein the same is rendered, his fee
bills for such fees, or certificate for such attendance. The amount
due each officer or witness, for what is so lodged, shall, and the
amount due the clerk himself for fees so included, may, within the
said ten days, he noted in the margin of the order or execution book,
opposite the entry of the case. An officer or witness, whose fees or
certificate may be so noted, shall be paid the same out of the costs,
by the person against whom the judgment or decree is; and the right
to such payment shall be valid against any assignee of the judgment
or decree.
When the clerk issues execution in such case, he shall
endorse thereon how much of said costs is for each officer or witness
whose fees or certificate may be so noted; and the officer collecting said
costs shall pay the same accordingly, to those entitled thereto.
No
otttcer mentioned in this chapter shall be obliged to perform services
for any person out of his county, unless payment of his fees for said
service be made or secured; nor to perform services for any person
against whom he has bad fee bills returned, which remain unsatisfied,
unless he be secured payment of his fees for the services desired, or
performance of said services be directed by a ~ourt .
,·h.
:-rn. In all criminal cases, other than felony, search warrants and
:,.:. proceedings under chapter one hundred and fifty-six of this code,
eh. the fees of justices and constables shall be charged to the county,
and audited and paid as other claims against the county, except, that if
there is no conviction before the circuit court, then the person making the complaint before the justice, shall pny said fees, and the
county shall in no event, unless thre is a conviction as aforesaid, and
the fines and costs be collected therein, he liable for or pay any such
fees.
CHAPTER CXXXVlll.
OJ,' C08T8

For r11r111"r In w Sv.c.
011 t lu- ,-uhj,•,•t I. ['rivilt•i.:•· ,·xt,·11,lt·d lo ponr p,·r~oll~.
nr thiii'f'll:lpl••r. ~ ' .
.
·"'''' Crnl•· Vu, :l: 1 l',4•rurtty ror co"b.
~::- 011'.~r

,·r<'IIC"~·"''''
lions.
Act!<

146.

I~.!.

~t~:

s••<.'·

ch.

OESER.\LLY.
SKc.
l'' (
to
How 1111<1 what costs 11r,· to ho• 1:11, .. 1.
Ii.

t,~ (, ·a,-••s wlu-r .. i11 ,•o,;b nr,• r,.,:O\"f'r1•1l.
11.

I

l'ri1:il,',<I,'. ,·.-rtnuled lo poo·r pn-son&.
1. A poor person may be allowed by a court to sue or defend a

Digitized by

Google

CH. 138.J

877

COSTS GENERALLY.

suit therein without paying fees or costs, whereupon he shall have,
from any counsel which the court may assign him, and from all
officers, all needful services and process, and also the attendance of
witnesses, without any fees to them therefor, except what may be
included in the costs recoverable from the opposite party.
Secm·it,y for costs.
2. In any suit (except where such poor person is plaintiff) there Acts 1875.ch.78.
ch. 364.
146.
may b ea sugges tiion on th e recor d im cour t , or 1'f t lie case b e at ru l es, 41882,
Munt.
Gfhm-r 123
on the rule docket, by a defendant or any otflcer of the court, that 10 Gratt. 'Jff/.
the plaintiff is not a resident of this State, and that security is re- rn ~: i~;.~77.
quired of him. After sixty days from such suggestion, the suit
116,180.
shall by order of the court be dismissed, unless before the dismis- 25 w. Va. 427·.
sion, the plaintiff be proved to be a resident of the State, or security
be given before said court, or the clerk thereof for payment of the
costs which may be awarded to the defendant, and of the fees due,
or to become due in such suit, to the officers of the court.
The security shall be by bond payable to the State; but there need only be
one ohligor therein, if he be sufficient.
The court before whose
clerk such bond is given, may on motion by a defendant or officer,
giYe judgment for so much as he is entitled to by virtue of said
bond.
3. On motion of an obligor in such bond, after reasonable notice 1~~
to the plaintiff, his attorney-at-law or agent, the court may order a
new bond to be given, with sufficient security, in a penalty equal to
the penalty of the former bond. If the bond required under this
section he not given within such time as the court may prescribe, it
may order the snit to be dismissed.
1f such new bond be given, the
surety in the former one shall be relieved from_any liability he might
have incurred because of having executed or acknowledged the
same.
After the notice has been given to the plaintiff, his attorney
or agent, no further proceedings shall he had in said cause, until
such new bond is given with sufficient security, or a sufficient excuse
is given for not executing the same.

:•w.va.

ifi;i.:.78.

Oase« wherein costs are recovered.
.
4. U pon any motion
(ot h er than for a [uc l gment f or money ) , or Acts
146.
upon any interlocutory order or proceeding, the court may give or
refuse costs, at its discretion, unless it be otherwise provided.
It
may, when a demurrer is sustained to a plea in abatement, give judgment for the plaintiff for his full costs to the time of sustaining it,
and when any part of the proceedings is adjudged insufficient, order
all costs occasioned by such insufficient pleading, to be paid by him
who committed the fault.
5. New trials may be granted upon the payment of costs, or with Id.
the costs to abide the event of the suit, as to the court may seem
right.
If the party who is to pay the costs of the former trial, fail
to pay the same at or before the next term after the new trial is
granted, the court may, on the motion of the opposite party, set aside

Digitized by

1882, ch.

Google

878

[CH. 138.

COSTS GENERALLY.

the order granting it, and proceed to judgment on the verdict or
award execution for said costs, as may seem to it best. Where a
case is continued at the costs of a party against the consent of the
opposite party, the court may, in its discretion award an execution
for the costs of such continuance .
•~d,.11 ('a" .16113
H. In any personal action not on contract, which might be brought
nnd prosecuted to judgment in a justice's court, if a verdict be found
for the plaintiff, on an issue or otherwise, for less damages than fifty
dollars, he shall not recover; in respect to such verdict, any
costs, unless the court enter of record that the object of the action
was to try a right besides the mere right to recover damages for the
trespass or grievance in respect of which the action was brought, or
that the said trespass or grievance was willful or malicious.
I~:!. '°'1•
7. In any personal action on contract, wherein it is ascertained
131.
:4J:U- <'us.
that not more is due the plaintiff than fifty dollars, exclusive of in[.,,\_11.Cns.D'~.:!lr.l. terest, judgment shall be given for the defendant, unless the court
enter of record that the matter in controversy was of greater value
than fifty dollars, exclusive of interest; in which case it may gh·e
judgment for the plaintiff for what is ascertained to be due him,
with or without costs, as to it may seem right.
ll'O!"~. eh.
H .. Kxcept where it is otherwise provided, the party for whom
4 Grut t , 11v. 1~'9. final judgment is given in any action, or in n motion for judgment
v«. :l:ti. for money, whether he be plaintiff or defendant, shall recover bis
f_.'!f!,, . ,·11. :!4:1. costs against the opposite party; and when the action is against two
eo
11• ~,.
· ,J
f or or diiseontmuance
·
~• w.
w. vu.
1ri.
or more, an d t l iere ·is a [udgrnent
as to some
730·
:!-t w. Vu.
hut not all of the defendants, unless the court enter of record that
there was reasonable cause for making defendants those for whom
there is judgment, or as to whom there is such discontinunnce (and
order otherwise) they shall recover their costs.
IAA:!. da.
9. When n suit is in the nume of one person for the benefit of any
2713. other, if there he a judgment for the defendant's cost, it shall he
ea w. v«. 'i1111• against such other .
. \,·ts 11«~. •·h.
10. The laws of costs shall not he interpreted us penal laws; nor
14tt
eo w. Vu.~shall anything in this chapter take away or abridge the discretion of
:i..w. ,·1,.401.
•
:r. w. \'11. 4~. a court of equity over the subject of costs, except as follows:
w

•

·

·W

•

•

·,~~s

u:
rrw.

'°

s:

:~ u~:,t~}

.\ds 188:!. ch.
146.
I Roh. 1411.
:! Roh. 40.
\l<rr11tt.~.3:l6.
3~.

w. v«. ai
j~~fi, IRB:l, "'1·

:t!

A,'.t~ 1s;;,c1a.7:!.
188:!.
146·
ch.

w. v».

i07.

~: ~r \!~;."i%.

7

Hou: and whol cost» a rr lo lw tarr.l ,

. an appellate court, costs sha 11 be recoveren,..,1 m
•
11. I n every case m
h
l
1
h
.
11
·1·
sue court ff t ie party su stantia y prevai mg.
12. The cierk of a court wherein a party recovers costs shall tax
the same.
1:3. He shall include in the costs to the prevailing party :
T. In an action at law, not less than two and a half nor more than
ten dollars, as the court may prescribe.
I I. In a chancery cause, not less than fifteen nor more than twenty
dollars, as the court may prescribe.
To the party prevailing in the
court of appeals, thirty dollars. In civil cases in a municipal court,
the same fees t\S are allowed in a circuit court for like cases.

Digitized by

Google

Ca. 138.J

CosTS

879

GENERALLY.

14. The clerk shall tax in the costs all fees of officers which the Ar.ti<
l88"2, ch.
146.
said party appears to be chargeable with, in the case wherein the recover)' is, except that where, in any court on the same side, more
than one copy of anything is obtained or taken out, in which may be
included a copy of any pleading in a pending case, there shall be
taxed only the fee for one copy of the same thing. He shall also
tax fifty cents for each legal notice from such party therein, served
in this State, and not otherwise taxed.
H>. The price for publishing all advertisements and publications i~~./
11:i·. \18.
required to be made by law, or b)· the order of n court, in any cause
or proceeding therein, or by any provision of a deed of trust, or
where any publication is made pursuant to law and no price is named,
shall not exceed one cent and a quarter for each word for the first
insertion, and the half of one cent for each word for every subsequent
insertion required to be made; and if no newspaper in which such
publication may be made, will insert the same for the time required,
or the price aforesaid, then the notice shall be posted by the person
whose duty it is to have the publication made, at the front door of
the court house of the county in which the cause is pending, or the
proceedings had, at least four weeks prior to the time fixed for executing the order, decree or deed, or for the accomplishment of the purpose of said publication, and copies of said notice shall be posted at
least four other public places in said county at the same time, and a
copy of the same shall be sent by the person whose duty it is to post,
by mail, postage paid, to each party interested in such publication,
directed to such person at his lust known post-oftlce. ln any case
the price paid for such publication or posting and postage shall be
taxed in the bill of costs. and an nffldavit shall he filed by the person
posting the notice, showing the fact that the notice was posted as
required by this section, und the further fact that no newspaper published in the county, or having a general circulation therein, would
publish the notice upon the terms mentioned above, and the same
facts shall be stated in the decree or order entered under the notice
thus posted.
16. The clerk shall include in the costs, for fees of the prosecut- .\ct" JH77.\'lt.72.
,
•
1&12. ch. 146.
mg attorney, the followmg: In cases of misdemeanor, or an action
upon a bond for a violation of the license laws, ten dollars.
In a case
of bastardy, ten dollars.
In a snit or proceeding upon a forfeited recognizance upon behalf of the ~tate, five per cent. upon the amount
recovered and paid into the treasury.
Iu cases of felony, thirty dollars.
In any other case of the State, if a ditrerent fee is not prescribed, ten dollars.
But such fees shall not in any case be paid out
of the county or state treasury.
17. In a case wherein there is judgment or decree, on behalf of .\cts 1118'..?. ,·h.
the State, for costs, there shall be taxed in the costs, the charge ao- lt{:;rntt. it15.
tually incurred to give any notice, although it be more than fifty
cents and mileage, and the fees of attorneys and other ottlcers for
services and allowances for attendance, as if such fees and allow-

~1::\

Digitized by

Google

88o

jUDOMENT

[CH. i39.

LIENS.

ances were payable out of the treasury.
What is so taxed for fees
of, or allowance to, any person shall be paid to him by the sheriff
or officer who may receive said costs, unless such person shall previously have received payment thereof, in which case the same shall
be paid into the treasury.

CHAPTER CXXXIX.
( As amended and rP-.•1111ct.-d.

Olo' ESFORCISO

s,,, .. \1·.t~

DECREES ANI> ORDERS j

I~.

ch, 12t\.)

DOCKETISO

J l'J>O)IF.NT8

.vxn

OTHER LIESS OF A LIKE NATURF;; THE E}'}'ECT OJ,' HUCH
LIENSj

AND TUE LDfITATION

OF PROCEEDINOS

JUDO}IF.STS.
For former law
on the subject Sze.
ssc,
or thi!! chapter. 1. I l>1>cr,~·11 nnd orders on the footing or I
to tho s11ti,;fuctlon of lions in cPrt11i11
ON

Code Va 2. f julillUWllts.
186: 3. t l>oc~•·tinl! Jutlgnwnts 1111ll other llens or
For other n-Ier- 4. I a Iik« nature.
('_nct•s, 8, • ._, sec- r». '· Lien or judgment 011 r.,111 estutr-,
.
tions
6. I
··
7. Suits to Pnforc•• [udgmeut llt>U1'.
8. In whut ord-r r•·nl ,·,-tut,• to bP subjeetr-d
i;et'

1860, ch.

c11!'1•s.
JO, 1 Llnntatlon or pro1•1·,•di11:.r,- to t·nfoN'•·
jml1,t1t1P11t;;.
12. l,hi:iitation.1111 motion 11!!11i11"t ofllt·•·r1111,i

111. (
13.

Ins sur--t

11·~.

~otlc,• or li« pe mlen«,

Decrees and orders on the footiug of judgmnil~.
1. A decree for land or specific personal property and n decree or
:! Ll'iJ!h 361.
order requiring the payment of money, shall have the effect of a judg6 Gratt. 451.
27 w. \'11. 61i.
ment for such land, property or money, aud be embraced by the word
''judgment'' where used in this or any of the three succeeding chapters. But a party may proceed to carry into execution, a decree or
order in chancery, other than for the payment of money, as he might
have done if this and the following section had not been enacted.
1882, eh.
2. The persons entitled to the benefit of any decree or order re1~~l'l
27 w.v». 01;.
quiring the payment of money, shall he deemed judgment creditors,
although the money may be required to he paid into a court. or a
bank or other place of deposit.
In such case, an execution on the
decree or order shall make such recital thereof, and of the parties to
it as may be necessary to designate the case; and if u time be specified in the decree or order within which the payment is to he mude,
the execution shall not issue until the expiration of that time.
Aet~

126.

1882, ch.

Docl.·etiug j11dgm1·11flf and other lieu« of a Iii.·,, nature.
3.
In
the following section the word ''J'udgment" sball include any
l?CJ.
undertaking, bond or recognizance which has the force of a judgment.
,,c,,. IR77.ch.6S.
4. The clerk of every circuit and municipal court shall, without
~~: r~·.d1~·390. delay, make out and deliver a duly certified abstract of every jmlJr\!~;. ;.:.· ment rendered by such court, and every justice of the peace shall
~ w.v». ~1. without delay, make out and deliver a duly certified abstract of every
judgment rendered by him or hy any other justice, the docket of
which is in his possession and under bis control, to any person interested therein who may demand the same, and pay or tender the
fee therefor, in which abstract shall he stated the names 111 full of
the plaintiff or plnintrrts, and the defendant or defendants, as they
appear in the papers und proceedings in the cause, and if the defendA1·ts IR8'l, ch.

:~ ~t

Digitized by

Google

CH. 139.]

.lUDOMENT

881

LIENS.

ants are sued as partners the partnership name shall be stated; the
amount of the judgment and the amount of the costs, stating each
separately; the vajue of specific property (if any) recovered by it,
and the damages (if any) for its detention; the date of the judgment
and the court in which, or the justice by whom, the judgment was
rendered.
Any clerk or justice who shall fail to deliver such abstract
as herein required shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and fined fifty
dollars. And the clerk of every county court shall keep in his office
in a well bound book, a judgment docket, in which he shall docket
without delay any judgment in this State, upon the delivery to him
of such authenticated abstract thereof for that purpose and the payment or tender of his fee therefor. In such docket there shall be
stated, in separate column:
I. The names in full of the plaintiff or plaintiffs, and the defendant or defendants, as they are stated in such abstract, and if it appear
by such abstract that the defendants were sued as partners, their
partnership name shall also be stated.
II. The amount of the judgment and of the costs, stating each
separately.
Ill. The value of any specific property recovered by the judgment,
and the damages (if any) for its detention.
IV. The date of the judgment.
V. The court in which, or the justice by whom it was rendered.
VI. The date of docketing the judgment.
Every judgment docketed by the clerk of the county court as
aforesaid, shall at the same time be indexed by him in an index to
he kept in or annexed to said judgment docket, in full, the name of
the defendant, and if more than one defendant, in the full name of
each, as they appear in the said abstract.
If the defendants are
sued as partners, it shall also be indexed in the partnership name
appearing by such abstract.
Any clerk of a county court failing to
perform any duty required of him by this section, shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor and fined fifty dollars, and he and his securities in his
official bond shall moreover be liable to any person injured b)~ such
failure for all such damages :1H he may sustain by reason thereof.
IJtt'n ,~(J,ul,qm,·nts 011 rcul estate.

5. Every judgment for money rendered in this State heretofore or~~'." t~.!. ch,
· t any· person, s h a 11 be a 1·ten on a II rea I esta t e o f or 41 Munr.
herea ft er, ugams
Lt•igh fi:J9.
140.
to which such person shall be possessed or entitled at or after the~
date of such judgment, or, if it was rendered in court, at or after the
11::~·
commencement of the term at which it was so rendered, except as ~1gr~1~~:it till.
follows:*
4 Grut.t, 81, 407.

t:tt ~:

tJ;:~\t

~ Gratt 119.
8 L1•ii.:h. n03: 4
5fl2: JO W. Va.
~ W. \'11. Ht;

l!.lO; 8 Gr1ltt. till: IOCimtt. ltH. r,80. 612: 2 ('11111:?."i: 4 ~I 1111r. :>46: 6 Rnnd. 1\18:
W. v». OOn: s
v», 18-J: O w. \'11. 67; i' w. \'n. 418; 8 w. v». 218: 14 w. \"11.
187: 14 W. v«. 211. :~7: rn w, \'11. i91: 17 w. Vu. ~4~. 27ff. 31:l: :.'6 w. \"11. ~}7:
34 w. \"11. f..i8: I:! S. E. R. 1078.

w.

"SoTE-,Tud1,mw11t UJ!llinst an ndminlstrntor.
not. a lu-n 011 tlu- r,•:tlt\' or th« iutvstut ... S1•1·
,·11. 218: 14 w. \'11. 211: 17 w. \'11. ua: 21 w. \'11, ,tr,,;; !ffl
Vu. 636: :!8 w. v». 3'iH·

~ w.

33 W. v u, ~. i:!4.

w.

'

Digitized by

Google

882

JunG:\tEST

[CH. 139.

LIES~.

6. No judgment shall be a lien on real estate as against a purchaser thereof for valuable consideration without notice, unless it be
,·a.
docketed according to the third and fourth sections of this chapter
in the county wherein such real estate is, either within sixty days
">
next after the date of the judgment or before a deed therefor to said
:!31. pure h aser, is· cI e 1·iverec·1 for recor d to t lie c l er k o f t he county court.
~\\'. vu. rn. Procidrd , That the judgment of a justice of the pence shall not be a
2:1 w. \'11. :rn.
.
.
.
•
lien on real estate as ngamst such purchaser, until the same is docketed as aforesaid.
Suits to «ufurc« judymeut l ieu»,
Act,s tm.ch.68.
18&?, ch. iee.
2 Gratt.419. -t~.
10 Lirutt. sso.
9 \\':
f).">2.
12 W. Vu. 103.
14 w. Va. 36i.
HI W. v». i9t.
1;
\n. 21~.
004·
19
u ''w.· v«.
\'11.

)~~~ ~f!i~t:l)·

7 · The lien of a judgment may he enforced in a court of equity
after an execution or /it-ri fncia« thereon has been duly returned, to
aw. ,·,~.Ha.12a. the office of the court or to the justice from which it issued, showing
438. 6i:!.
4 w. \'11.-lOi.490, by the return
thereon that no property could Le found from
nl4. 000· t!U'l.
•
•
.
~ "> yi,: ~1.. which
such execution
cou l cl be ma d e ; I 'rur1dn I . T hat such hen
may
ll .•
~.5.';9,
· equity
.
.
·US.
be en f orcer 1 in
wit. h out sue I 1 return, w I ien un execution
or
:?IO.
fi ,,i·,.. J,1c1,1s
. .
h as . no t rssuec
.
l wit
. hi111 two years f rom th e d ate o f
9Ii W.
w. Yu.ti&l.&.r.>.
10
I tr. "tl ie JUl
. 1 gment . If 1. t appear to sue h cour t t l iu t . th <' n-n t s um1 pro fl ts
:..'IIIS. w.
:!98. \'II.
&tfl.7tH.
~l/\JO~:~~·/~.!. of the real estate subject to the lien will not satisfy the judgment in
lift·\'aJl8.M:?. five years, the court may decree the said estate, or nny part thereof,
~\44~·;,t44o, to he sold and the proceeds applied to the discharge of the judgment.
v«. 4:1;, In every such suit all persons having liens on the real estate sought
~~4 1i1~'a. O:!.\ to be subjected by judgment or otherwise,
shall he made parties,
tU11~';S:l.'l~'a. sse, plaintiff or defendant, or if the number of such persons exceed ten
~\sr,~·a. 201. the suit may he brought by any one or more of them, for the benefit
111 w. v». t:t">. of himself and such other lien holders as will come in and contrlbute
~ w. \'11. 4:..'9.
il'.!I.•. 1!4.r~. . • to the expenses
of the suit.
And whether the suit he so brought or
-1 w. \ ».ss.us.
1~1. .
•
r.
not, every such lien holder, whether he he named as a party to the
1·>9,
:.....
'' · ' u.
• or not, or w h et l ier h e I >e server 1 wit
. h process t l 1ere111
. or not, uiav
+14.-tH.
suit
:!:l w. v«. 4ll7•
1
I
11
d
l
.
l
h
.
,,:!:!. M6.
present, prove unc iave a owe any c aim re may ave ngainst
t l.ie
:!4
w.
v».
IHI,.
1
d
It
hi
ti
.
1·
h
l
t
t
:..m. r~. ~.'i'..!".!. JU( gment en or, w ic is a ien on sue roa cs a e, or any part
[;/ · v«. :!·I:!. thereof, and from and after the time he presents UH)' such claim he
f11.'~~·u. !Ht. shall 'he deemed n party plaintiff in such suit. Xo decree for the
4:?'!.
~.\./11•
distributiou of the proceeds of such real «stnte shall he made until a
:f: ~~:: \.':;.~!i1. notice to all persons holding liens on the reul estnte of the [udgment
~~: m. 4.~,.r,i:!. debtor hl• posted and published, under a dl'l"fC'<' of the court. as
;f~,."°· v». 1!18. hereinafter provided. ~uch notice shall be sufficient if it l)(> in
at w. v». :i.)lol. form or etf Pct as follows:

~~( v~: ~:

v

1

\\

•

·'

,·a

!;t·
.'i

4i:J.
:C-.! \\'.\'11.:.!,-,.:!H.

:t~ w.

\':i.llfl.

1>4.f.
1:J S. E. H. IO'iH.

.Ynti,·,· to

u.;

/111/d,·,··"·

To nil peri;ons holding llens by [udgruont or otherwise. on the
real estate, or any part thereof, of .-\ -B -:
In pursuance of a decree of the circuit court of -county, made
in a cause therein pending. to subject the real estate of the said
..:\-B-to the satisfar-tiou of the lions thereon, you ure hereby
required to present all claims held hy you uud Ptl<'h of you against
the imid ~\. -B --, which are liens on hi!-1 real esh\h•, or .my
part of it, for atljmlieat ion lo Ill(', at my ottic·e in tht' (•otmty (or citJ·,

Digitized by

Google

[CH. 139.]

883

.JUDGMENT LIENS.

town or village, as the case may be), of --,
on or before the day of--.
Given under my hand this - clay of --.
C -)) --,
commissioner.
Such notice shal1 be published once in each week, for four successive weeks, in some newspaper printed in the county, or if none
be printed therein, in some newspaper of genera] circulation in the
county, and posted at the front door of the court house of such
county at least four weeks hefore the day mentioned in the notice;
and such publishing and posting of such notice shall be equivalent
to the personal service thereof on all persons holding liens on any
such real estate, unless the court shall in the decree directing such
notice to be so published and posted otherwise order.
The commis-j , w. vs.
sioner to whom the case is referred by such decree shall, as soon as
possible after the said notice is published and posted as aforesaid, or~
served in such manner as the court may order, proceed lo ascertain «>6.
and report all the liens on the real estate or any part thereof of the
judgment debtor, the holders of such liens, the amount due to each,
and the priorities thereof, and such other matters and things as the
court by its decree may direct, and the same proceedings sha11 ht:'
had on such report as in other suits in chancery.
When the report
of any such commissioner is confirmed, if the claims therein reported (if
any) be not paid, the court shall decree that the real estate of the
judgment debtor, subject to such lien or liens, so far as may be necessary, shall be rented or sold, and the proceeds thereof distributed
among the several Hen holders who have appeared and proved their
liens and claims, according to their several priorities (if any); which
decree shall he a bar to the claim of any lien holder who has not appeared
and presented his claim to said commissioner, as required by said .
notice, except that if a surplus remain after the payment of the
claims so presented and proved, and confirmed bv~ the court, the lien
bolder so failing to appenr may share in such surplus, upon proving
his claim at any time before a final decree in the case, in suchmanner as the court shall direct.
But if he fnil to present his claim before such final decree, he shall be forever barred of a11 right to participate in the proceeds of such real estate so far as the other creditors
of said judgment debtor, holding Hens on his real estate, who have
not so failed, ure concerned, and so far as the creditors at large of
such judgment debtor are concerned.
1f pending any such suit, a 13 w,
. J gmen t a t ] aw l1e recovere . d l)Y any person agams
. t sue }1 JU<
. J gment H W. Vu.
Jm
debtor, such person may present his claim to the commissioner and
have it adjudicated and allowed in the same manner and to the same
extent as if the judgment had been obtained before the institution of
such suit.
And he may present such claim to the court after the
report h~ made, and before the entering of a decree distributing the
proceeds of the sale of such real estate, and have the same adjudicated and passed upon bv the court, and if found to be correct and
a lien upon such real estate, the court shall allow and confirm the

:nr ,Y:: ~146.

'k\~/~

.

'°"·

4-iO.
38i.

•
Digitized by

Google
.

I

884

JUDGMENT

[CH. 139.

LIENS.

same, and provide for the payment thereof in the decree of sale and
distribution.
If after the commencement of such suit any lien holder
commence any other suit or proceeding in or out of court to enforce
a lien claimed by him on the real estate, or any part thereof, of the
judgment debtor, upon which a lien is sought to be enforced by such
suit, the court, or the judge thereof in vacation, may enjoin him from
so doing, and require him to come in and assert bis lien in such suit,
or make such order or decree in relation thereto as to such court or
judge may seem right and proper to protect the interest of all parties
having such liens.

!11 icb«! order real estate to l,t, sul,Jfftcd

lo tlu satisfaction. of Iien« in
certain cases, etc .
. \~ti. 1882, ch.
8. Where the real estate liable to the lien of a judgment is more
l:?6.
2 Lf'igh 4~.
than sufficient to satisfy the same, and it, or any part of it, has been
a 1.,•lgli 53"!.
10 Lehth 394.
aliened, as between the ulienees for value, that which was aliened
4 Grntt. 81.
5 Gratt. 84.
last shall, in equity, he first liable, and so on with other successive
6 Grall. YO.
8 Grutt. 180.
And as between
tu Grntt. 164. alienations until the whole judgment is satisfied.
4 W. v». &Jo.
alienees who are volunteers under such judgment debtor, the same
H w.v«. 36,.
rn ~i:: ~::: Wi: rule as to the order of liability shall prevail. But any part of such
~'~~:\~~~~\~~~-real estate retained by the debtor himself shall be first liable to the
:!."> w.v». 242.
satisfaction of the judgment.
Aets 1~. ch.
9. Where two or more judgments are rendered against the same
t:!O.
person, and the lien thereof on his real estate commences on the
same day, the creditors having such [udgments shall be entitled to
satisfaction out of said real estate ratably,

Limitations of procenlingR to enforce judgment-.
1:.io.
10. On a judgment, execution mav~ be issued within two ~vears
4 Munr. 104.
6 Munr. :rz. tPa. after the date thereof. or if none be so issued. the court in which the
1 H1u11I -136.
3 H1111d. -too.
judgment was rendered may thereafter, and within ten years from
4 l,t'l)Ch 189,303, h
. l gmeut, upon ten d ays notice
.
.
:m.
t e date o f t h e JU<
to the party ngatnst
10 L,•1ichll3.fi8'i.
h
h
·
I
·
·
•h
f
h
11 1."il!h 2.
w om t e same is, ore er an execution to issue " croon or sue
sum
Roh. lllH.
•
·
·
. lnn
' two years as
41 Grutt,
25.
ns remams
unpau• 1 . '\'h ere execution
issues
wit
'iCirutt.
:!O'.?. -l:!!l. a f oresai id , otth er oxecu tiions may lle ·issuec l on sue h JU<
· l gmentt wi'th ou t
10 urnu. ers.
g ~i~:!~~: i~t.1. notice, within ten years from the return day of the last execution
1
issued thereon on which there is no return by an officer, or which
:
\\:_,·:,;1;~~48i.
has been returned unsatisfied.
And an action, suit or sci re f"ria~
may be brought upon a judgment on which no execution issued
~ii."'· Ya. a:!t. within the said two years, or where there has been a change of parii~~:}:::
ties by death or otherwise, at any time within ten years next after
the date of the juclgment. But if such action, suit or sci re faci,,,.
be against a personal representative of a decedent, it shall be brought
within five years from the qualification of such representative.
11. ~o execution shall issue, nor any action, suit or scire (aci11,.
,s,..69.1111,1.,
, .\f'b 18':!,
b I
h
. 1
. h' ' .
f
h .
. 'l I
,·h.
.. ,,. e iroug ton any JUI gmcnt m t as ~tute a ter t e time prescn K"C1
~~.!/ 1';J:/~;.,1. in the preceding section, except that in computing the time, the period
l/~j1111r. 1~.,. mentioned in the fourth section of chapter one hundred und thirty.
~ ~~·,!~;. ~- six of this code, acd any time during which the right to sue out
,\ct!' 188'..?. ch.

r 'tvV/~~-

:\t!~/1=~.

~~t

Digitized by

Google

Cn. 140.J

88~

Lis PENDENs-J.;xEcuT10ss.

~\.cr;i~.487.

execution on the judgment is suspended hy the terms thereof, or by
legal process, shall be omitted from the computation; and the six-~
teen th, seventeenth, eighteenth and nineteenth sections of chapter 32 w. v». 1-H.
3~ W. Vu. 4fl:t
one hundred and four of this code shall apply to the right to bring
such action, suit or scire fucia«, in like manner as to any right,
action, suit or sri·r,· fncias, mentioned in those sections; and except
that when the judgment is for the penalty of a bond, but to be discharged by the payment of what is then ascertained, and such sums
as may be afterwards assessed or found due upon a scire f'oein« on
the judgment, assigning a further breach of the bond, such scirc
.focin.~ may be brought within ten years after such breach.
12. A motion against an officer or his sureties, or his or their i~~t· 1882· ch.
representatives, for a failure to return an execution, shall be made~ w. Vu. t+i.
within ten years from the return day thereof and not after.
~\',,ti,·c of u, pendeu«,

~u:::: ~:

13. The pendeney of an action, suit, attachment or proceedings

Acti- t87i.<'h.tl8.

to subject real estate to the payment of any debt or liability, upon

JTi;n~:'.- ;~'6.
9

which a previous lien shall not have 1)cen acquired in some one or~ t::)~t ~:
more of the methods prescribed hy law, shall not bind or affect a pur.] ~~11:ii.1~·9.
chaser of such real estate, for a valuable consideration, without notice, /W~\lr·a~~i 1.
unless and until a memorandum, setting forth the title of the cause; ~i \~.J~,·. ':ia.
the court in which it is pending; the general object of the suit, at-~
tacluuent, or other proceeding, .the location an.d quantity of the land, :.'6 \\.\:n. R:W.
30 \\. \ a. tlX'i.
as near as may be, and the name of the person whose estate therein
is intended to he affected by the action, suit, attachment or proceeding, shall he filed with the clerk of the county court of the county
in which the land is situated. The clerk of every such county court
shall without delay record the said memorandum in the deed hook,
and index the same in the name of both the parties.

f

~r~:.,:: ~:

CHAPTER
OJo'

F.XECeTIO~S

1-'0H 8PEClf'IC

SP.f'

I.

''
3.

r,.
fl.

,.

01'' WRITS OF }Tl-:RI

St:c.

fol. Priorit v of f'X<'1'11tlo11;;. «te.: \\h1•11 to be
i.ntbh,,~t rutu hl v,
9. R,,turn of1•x1·C'11t'io11, I'll'.
10. H••-;.;ah· of pr11p1.•rt.r hy ntli,·••r wlu-r« pur,•li:ast•r fails to romply with tn111s of
,-uh·: r1'1Jll'd.v 11:.rninst JH1rC'l111,-t>r u t
first su lv.
«r ponet«. 1111d proc,••·din:.r,-

ExPc11ti11n nu:ninst corporation:
n1rni11,-t
.-.·v,,ral p,•r,-011~ 011 j11i111 j111l~111.. 111.
Firri fndt11i on j111l:.mw111 fr,r 11111111·y:
,/i,.tri1,r1a,< 11111,\· 1111 jurhrmvnt fur sp,·,·i·
11<' pn,.;onal pr11p1·rt.,.
11111\· ,•x,·,·11tio11
issu .. s wlu-r-- j11tll,l111••11t
i~ f11r 1111' h1•tll'tlt •>f 11 11<•rso11 ot lu-r
pl:1intilT:
r,.nll'di,·.~ of s11t'h l"'t·

g: :- r~;::~::.i~1:.1.i

!~:\~'.'

-1.

CXL.

PROPERTY, ANH
}'ACIAS.

l.·:x,·cuti,iu nn judurru-ut for ,.;p,•,·itk r1·1il j t:l. :\l111w\ tP•·•·i\·,.d under .. xr-cut ion. how
or p•·rsonal prop .. rt y.
1li,;q;11~Pd of.
On \\ hat fi, fa. 11111y h•· lt•vi<•,L from H. om .... r not to l!O out of his 1:01111ty lo pay
whut t inu- it hi111ls pro1wrty.
lll<H1•·\·. •·t•·.
l.f h-vh-d 11111~oi11 or hank not.t•,-, how ttc-1 If• .. \dditio'ual .. x,·1·11tio11s 11111v lx- >'lll'd out,
,•,.11111,·11 for.
t>t1·.
·
Ot1i,·1•r to incl•Jts•• tinw of r,•ePirinl! ,•x,·- Ill. '.\1•\\. ,.,_,,eutklll on scirc (11cia11 or motion.
cut ion : r.,111 .. d v 11i.:ainst him fnr fail·
in 1•1•rtai11 <'11>-••s .... c. •
un-.
·
17. W h,.11 n nd how PXt•eut ion c1 uushvd.

I

Fur tormer law
on this suhJ••et
i-1•c! Crnlt• \'a.
1860.ch.1~7.
Fur
"I h',• r r v f 1• r~IU~PS.

A.~ tn i.•u111i11.q ,·.r,•,·utiu11s !f''IICl'oll.lJ.

~Pf-"

st~c.·~

ti1111"'.

1. Against a corporation such executions may issue ns against n
natural person.
Ami where a judgment is against several persons
jointly, executions thereon shall he joint against them all.

Digitized by

Google

-

88fi
1 W. Y1t. Si.
23W. \'11.700.

I vhch 436.
2 Lei!!h 560.
3 L1·i1d1 8.',.
J l;r11tt. 1!'>6-7.
fiGrutt. l.
1:lW.\'a.80a.
IY W. \"a. :!6.'i.

2. On a judgment for money, there may be issued a writ of tieri
fncias, hut no writ of lerari focias or e/Pgit shall he issued hereafter;
nor a writ of distt-i11g,1H, except on a judgment for specific personal
property.
3. Where an execution issues on a judgment for the benefit. in
whole or in part, of any person other than the plaintiff, if the fact
appear by the record, the clerk shall, in the execution or an endorsement thereon, state the extent of the interest therein of such person;
and he (either in bis own name or that of the plamtiff ) may. as a
party injured, prosecute a suit or motion against the officer.

Ol ,·.rffufious
~~~1

[CH. 140.

t~xECUTIONS.

~/'!k.

rn ~L ~::: ;;tJ:

i ~-_. ~::_- ~'ft:

for ;(pe,·1:fic prop,·rty.

4. On judgments for the recovery of specific property: real or personal, a writ of possession may issue for the specific property, which
shall conform to the judgment as to the description of the property,
and the estate, title, or interest recovered: and there may also be
issued a writ of ficr! fucin« for the damages or profits and costs.

(Y t!H·

ir r i!

of firri facitt.Y.

~ r,·u;~?~·I~·

5. By a writ of firri fw·iax, the officers shall he commanded to
make the monevJ therein mentioned out of the goods and chattels of
.
¥J~~~~·ttf6· the person against whom the judgment is. The writ may he levied
~2
as well on the current money and bank notes as on the goods and
1~ w. v«. 1:-11. chattels of such person;
and us against purchasers for valuable con1,1. 773.
•
16 w. Va. :u2. sideration
without notice and creditors, shall bind what it may ht•
4:!8 625.
•
•~ \\" vu. fil4. levied only from the time that the writ is delivered to the ofHcer to
v«. 115. be executed.
~,,~\a. a70. 6. If the levy be upon gold or silver coin, the same shall be ac~1\\'. v». 432. counted for at its par value as so much money made under the execution.
It it be upon hank notes, and the creditor will not take them
at their nominal value, they shall he sold and accounted for as any
other property taken under execution.
'i . Every officer shall endorse on each writ of fieri fm·in.'i the year,
month, day, and time of day, be receives the same. If he fail to do
so, the judgment creditor may, by motion, recover against him and
his sureties, jointly and severally, in the court in which the judgment was rendered, a sum not exceeding fifteen per centum upon the
amount of the execution.
8. Of writs of fini fucia.y, that which was first delivered to the officer, though two or more he delivered 011 the same day, shall be first
levied and satisfied; and where several such executions are delivered
to the officer at the same time, they shall he satisfied ratahly.
!I. Upon a writ of firr] fa,·io.o:, the otllcer shall return whether the
money therein mentioned is or can not be made; or if there he only
part thereof which is or can not he made, he shall return the amount
of such part.
With every execution under which money is recovered
he shall return a statement of the amount received, including his fe('s
and other charges: und such amount, except the said fees and charges.
he shall pay to the person entitled, or to bis agent or attorney.

:.? v». ens. 246·
3 l~dflh:m2.

\.~·~,.:!~1lF·

r;\\.

Digitized by

Google

CH. 140.J

887

J4~XECUTIO'.liS.

10. 1f at any sale by an officer, the purchaser shall not comply
with the terms of gale, the officer may sell the property, either forthwith or under a new advertisement, or return that the property was
not sold for want of bidders.
If, on a re-sale, the property be sold
for less than it sold for before, the first purchaser shall be liable
for the difference to the creditor, so far as is required to satisfy him,
and to the debtor for the balance.
This section shall not prevent
the creditor from proceeding as he might have done if it had not been
enacted.
Of flu: u_,rit of rendiriou, t'.rpoua.~.
11. When it appears by the return on an execution, that property u Gutt. f>9, M.
taken to satisfy it remains unsold, a writ of a11,Utio111: f'.rponw• may
issue; whereupon the like proceeding shall he had as might have
been had on the first execution, except that if it issue upon a return
of no sale for want of bidders, or of a sufficient bid, the notice shall
state the fact, and that the sale will be made peremptorily.
12. If nn officer, taking property under execution, die before the
sale thereof, and there be no deputies (of such officer) acting in the
case: upon a suggestion of the fact, a writ of ,·n,,/itioui ,·.rponas may
be directed to such sheriff or other officer of the county wherein the
property was taken. as may he in office at the time the writ issues.
Whereupon the representatives of the officer so dying shall deliver
the property to the officer to whom the writ is directed.
lf they
fail so to do, on his producing the said writ, and executing a receipt
for the property to them, or if, after three months from the death of
such officer, he have no personal representative, upon a return of the
fact, execution may be issued, by virtue of which such sheriff or
other officer of the connty, may seize the said property.
An officer
seizing or receiving property under this section shall sell it and account therefor as if the levy on it had been by himself.
JV/wt 11w1u-g recci crd nuder erecution is to he paid to tlie dd1tor; ,~ffic~r
not oMigf·d to go out of /,is countg lu P".lf nw11t!!J.
13. Where an officer has received money under execution, if any
surplus remain in his hands after satisfying the execution, such surplus shall be repaid to the debtor; and if the debtor or his personal
representative obtain an injunction or appeal staying an execution in
whole or in part, before money received under it, or any part of it,
is paid over to the creditor, the officer shall repay such debtor the
money so received and not so paid over, or so much thereof as the
injunction or appeal may extend to, unless otherwise directed by law,
or the order of the court.
14. Xo officer receiving money under execution, when the person 4 )tunr. 45.'i.
to whom it is payable resides in a different county from that in which 9 t.,•iih m.
the officer resides, shall be liable to have any judgment rendered
against him or his sureties for the non-payment thereof, until a demand of payment be made of such officer in his county by such
creditor, or his attomey-at-luw, or some person having a written order from the creditor.

Digitized by

Google

888

[CH. 141.

EXECUTIONS.

After one execution lu:« iss1wd, provixi,m for otlurs ; lune «cccutiou ma9
In· g_uasl1nl .
.\t't,; 18i'.!·3. eh.
15.
Subject
to
the
limitations
prescribed by law, a party obtaining
J:H.
(.('all
.t9'.!.
an
execution,
may
sue
out
other
executions at his own costs, though
II Rand.618.
:! , ...igh 361.
the
return
day
of
a
former
execution
has not arrived; and may sue
18 w. \'11. f>.14.
out other executions at the defendant's costs, where on a former execution there is a return by which it appears that the writ has not
been executed, or that it or any part of the amount thereof is not
levied, or that property levied on has been discharged by legal process, which does not prevent a new execution on the judgment.
In
no case shall there be more than one satisfaction for the same money
or thing.
5 J ... izh 10'.!.
1 H. If a tenant by elcgit heretofore issued be lawfully evicted, or
the land extended be lawfully sold, and any part of the judgment be
unpaid, or when property sold under execution, or its value, is recovered from an obligor in an indemnifying bond given before such
sale, or from n purchaser having a right of action on such bond, the
person having such judgment or execution, or his personal representative may, by .<1cir1_: fuciu«, or motion after reasonable notice to the
person, or the personal representative of the person, against whom
the judgment or execution was, obtain a new execution against him
in the latter case, for the amount for which the property sold, with
interest from the day of sale, and in the other cases, for 80 much of
the judgment as remains unpaid.
Such sci re facias shall he sued
out, or such motion made within five years after the right to sue out
or make the same .
. \c·ts t87t·3, ch,
17. A motion to quash an execution may, after reasonable notice
l:!IJ.
toGr111t. :!:!~.
to the adverse party, he heard and decided by the court whose clerk
11 Gratt, 6:!f>.
:1 w, \"11. 167.
issued the execution, or if in a circuit court, by the judge thereof in
~II w.w.vv».
a. rn9.
.
I
l
. 1
. h
I
.
k
169. vacation; anc sue 1 court or jut ge may, wit out sue 1 notice, ma e
13
W.
Va.
805.
d
+~
•
1·
th
tl
til
h
ti
ie w. v«. 7:t-1. an or er sw~ymg proceer mgs on e execu ion un 1 sue mo ton can
:r. ~~: ~::~: ~: be heard and determined. A copy of the order so made must be
f.1 tii.~'~. served upon the officer in whose hands the execution is.

r.

CHAPTER CXLI.
( As aun-udod 1111c) r1•·f.'1111cU•1I.
)IEANS

or

·~Nt'ORCl~(l

Rt:COVF.Rn:s

LEVYING

A

WRIT

S4•P .\c•ts 188:!. ,.•h. 1:r..1

01''

)(01\JEY

OJ.' 1''1ERI

OTHERWISE

TIIAS

BY

Jo'ACIA8.

Sv.c.
f.'or Iorrm-r law Sv.c. . •
.
.. ,·i1J,.nc.•1• of ch•ht to ln- rl'tur1..-,I ,,.
I. !loo <'II. Ila. to'"""" h,.r,•art .. r.
.
011 tlw suhjPet
1•1,•rk",-; oflh•,•: l"'tialty fur foilur,• .
or t his chu pn-r, :4. How 111)11 1wq11irc~J on d,•htnr"
whole
JO Sui.:i.: .. -t lou h.,· j udiruu-n t 1·rt·,litor tl1:1t
. ,,"
''"1,
y
p,·r,-otrnl ,•,.tat.I'.
1
,
hv r1·11so11 of t h» llr-n of Iii" '1. ,·.,
;S60
,1~
3. How liou u-rmiuuu-d.
1
10 :
ti11·r•• is II li11hilit,\' ou thir<l ,;.·r~;,n:
For·o,i'wrrrrpr: ... How j111!1m1".nt dt>htor mny '"' (.'oil.I·
proo•pc•cli11i.:s lh••l'f•t>IJ.
Pllci·s St'e "''C· 5, » P"ll,•cl lo dt,-;<'n\'Pr unrl surr,•11,t,•r his 14. I
la. Hv whom 1111,I how suit mav !)(' hrou~ht
ti 1 Ill '
.
ff. i t•,-ta t«. f'(I~ .•
·rnr r,.,.on·ry of 1•st:1t<• on ,,·1tic•b .Ii. fn
"·
7. How ;nwh dr-htor.ubout t.o quit th,• Stat<'.
ma ,. IK• 11rrt•,,tt•cl and hr-Id to a11sw,·r.
i,11 li•·n ... 11·.
8. Ord1•r ror sa le 111111 n pplteu tion nf c1 .. 1i1- ltl. om .. «r l'l't'l'i\'in~ 1110111'_\' uudvr this ··h:11r·
ors ""t11t1• mnv 1,.. 11111tl,• hv ,•1111rt.
t•·r. whvn nncl how to uccounr r,,r
9. Dut v or 11111,·,·r :is t,, s:11<·. ,•.n)I,·,.·1io11. n nd
su m«: p,·nulty for failur••.
Ii. t 'r,•,lit"r may j,..,u,• otllf'r t•\t•1·1111on ... Pie .
di~poi.ition or .J,·ht.or·s ,•slat,·: wh-n
.\<"Is 1872-3. ch.
:!lit§ I.
1. Xo writ of ,·11piax ml :wti.~(,1ci,·11d11m shall hereafter he issued.
11!8'..!. ch, l:!7.
~- Every writ of firri (aci11s shall, in addition to the
which
IV\\'. \'11. IH.

i:i·

I

I

etlect

Digitized by

Google .

CH.

141.J

8f,9

EXECUTIONS.

it has under chapter one hundred and fortvJ of this code ' be a lien '''I!!Acts § llfi".l-3.
ch.
,,
from the time it is delivered to the sheritf or other officer to he ex- i8iJ. ct;. 121.
6 Rand. 73l'>.
ecuted, upon all the personal estate of which the judgment debtor is 12 l,rntt. 401.
11'1 Grl\tt. isa
possessed, or to which he is entitled, and upon all which he may ac- 2 w. VIL. 5:!8.
9
1
.
b
f
h
1
h
f
I
h
h
I
'
quire on or e ore t e return < av t ereo , a t oug not evieu on nor 12W.
w. v«.
vu. n:?'.l.
011.
.
I
.
d
I
~
h
h
.
h
f
is
w.
capa bl e o f b emg evie on unc er t at c apter, except in t e case o 171. v11. rat,
.
a h us b an d or parent,
sue h estate as may h ave b een Iiiste d an d set 16W.\"a.342.
apart as exempt from distress and levy under the provisions of law,
and except that as against an assignee of such estate, for valuable
consideration, or a person making a payment to a judgment debtor,
the lien, by virtue of this section shall be valid only from the time
that he has notice thereof, and as to all property upon which a lien
is hereby given, the said lien shall continue after the return day of
the execution.
But a purchaser of such property, for value and without notice, after the return day of the execution, shall not be affected
by the lien acquired under chapter one hundred and forty, or under
this chapter. unless the execution be docketed as hereinafter provided, and if docketed, it shall be an abiding and continuing lien as
against such purchaser upon the property owned by the judgment
debtor, in the county at the time the execution was placed in the
hands of the sheriff or other olticer, or acquired by him on or before
the return day thereof, from the time it was docketed, and shall have
preference over such purchaser. The clerk of the county court of
every county shall keep in his office in a well bound hook, an execution docket in which he shall docket without delay, any execution in
this State, when he shall be required so to do by any person interested, on such person delivering to him an authenticated abstract of
it, for which be shall be entitled to the sume fee as for docketing a
judgment.
In such abstract and docket there shall be stated in separate columns:
I. The full name of the plaintiff or plaintitts, and of the defendant
or defendants, and if the defendants are sued as partners, the name
of the partnership.
II. The amount of the execution.
III. The date of the execution.
IV. The day and hour when received by the sheriff or other
officer.
V. When returnable.
VI. The date of docketing.
This section shall not impair a lien acquired by an execution creditor under chapter one hundred and forty of the code.
.~rt..i 187'.!-3. ch.
:.18. § 3.
3. The lien acquired under the preceding section shall cease when- 1882. ch. l:.'7.
t:!Gratt. 40S.
ever the right of the judgment creditor to levy the writ of fier] fucias, .1r, l,~n~t. 158.
20 \\ . \ u, :,AA,
under which the said liens arises, or to levy a new execution on his:?4 W.VIL. 321.
judgment, ceases or is suspended by a forthcoming bond heing given Acts IBrJ-3. ch.
· d , or b y an appea l or ot h erwise.
·
218. I 4.
an d f or f eite
188:!. eh. l:!i.
1 •
u
de b tor contpf' II eal to , l'iscocer atu l surrenacr
J
10 Grntt. 641.
.1.1.010
tu.s
estate.
3 w. v11. 614.
·1
T o ascer ta'in th e estaze
•~•.. on w h.ic h a wnit o f ficri
• · fucias
· ·
· a 1·1en2419w.,·a.o1.
~·
rs
w.v«. 6\.

Digitized by

Google

890

[CH. 141.

EXECUTIONS.

and to ascertain any real estate in or out of this State, to which a
debtor named in such fier] fncin« is entitled, the judgment creditor
may file interrogatories to the debtor, and a copy of the judgment,
with a commissioner of the court wherein the judgment is, or of the
circuit court of the county in which the defendant resides or may be
found, who shall issue a summons directed to the sheriff of his county,
commanding him to summon the defendant to answer said interrogatories, at a time and place within the county, to be therein specified, not
exceeding sixty days from the date of the summons.
A copy of the
interrogatories shall accompany the summons, and be served therewith on the defendant. The debtor served with such summons and
interrogatories shall, within the time prescribed therein, file answers
upon oath to such interrogatories.
lf he fail so to do, or file any
answers which are deemed by the c·ommissioner to be evasive, the
commissioner, after the service and return day of a notice to, or rule
upon the debtor, issued by such commissioner, and returnahle to a
day and place indicated in the process, to show cause against it, may
issue an attachment. against such debtor, returnable before him on a
day and place certain, set out in it, to compel such debtor to answer
before the commissioner the interrogatories aforesaid, or any others
which he may deem pertinent.
lint the said commissioner shall
enter in his proceedings and report to the court, in which the judgment was rendered, any and all objections taken by such debtor
against answering such interrogatories, or any or either or them; and
if the court shall afterwards sustain any one or more of such objections, the answers given to such interrogatories, as to which objections are sustained, shall be held for naught in that or any other
cause.
Arts t8i%-3, ch.
•
\
l estate out o f t hlis date,
~
21R.,i
5.
;J.
, ny rea
to w hire h it· may appear l ,y
llol8"-.
. entit. l e d , s ha 11 b e f ort h wit
. h conveyec I hy
2-1
w.ch.
va. l!..'7.
327. sue I1 answers t h e d e l»tor is
him to the officer to whom was delivered the said fi,,r; j,,rias; and
any money, bank notes, securities, evidences of debt, or other personal estate, which it may appear by such answers are in the possession or under the control of the debtor, shall be delivered by him,
as far as practicable, to the same ottlcer, or to such other, and in
such manner as may be ordered by the court, when the answers are
in court, or by the commissioner when the answers are not. in court.
Unless such conveyance and delivery he made, a writ shall he issued
by the court's order, or if the answers he not in court, by the commissioner, directed to the sheriff of any county requiring such sheriff
to take the debtor, and keep him safely until he shall make such
conveyance and delivery.
Upon doing which be shall be discharged
by the court under whose order the writ issued, or, if the answers
were not in court, hy the court by which the commissioner was appointed, or: in either case if the court be not sitting. by the commissioner .
.\1:ls 181'l-:t vh.
fl. The commissioner shall return the interrogatories and answers
!!18. i 6.
1882. ch. l:?i.
filed with him, and u report of the proceedings under the two pre1

Digitized by

Google

CH. 141.)

891

ixECUTIONS.

ceding sections, to the court in which the judgment is, or if the
judgment be of a justice, to the circuit court of the county.
7. Where a debtor named in a writ of fieri fucias after being Acts 1872-3, eh.
•
'
t18. f 7.
served with a summons issued by a commissioner, shall fail within 1882, ch. 121.
the time prescribed therein, to file answers upon oath to said interrogatories, or shall file answers which are deemed by the commissioner to be evasive, if the judgment creditor shall, by affidavit,
show to the satisfaction of the commissioner that there is probable
cause for believing that the said debtor is about to quit this State,
unless be be forthwith apprehended, a writ shall be issued by the
commissioner, directed to the sheriff of any county, requiring such
sheriff to take the debtor and keep him safely until such answers to
the interrogatories as the commissioner deems proper shall be filed,
and such conveyance and delivery as he deems proper shall be made,
or until a circuit court or a circuit judge shall direct the debtor's
discharge.
As to rccoter.lJ, sale aiu! application of ,frl>tor's estate.
8. Any order may be made hr such court which it mav deem right, Acts 1872-3, ch.
.
218. I 8.
as to t h e sn l e an d proper npp I lcation
o f t h e estate conveye d am l d e-188'2,
ch. 121.
livered under sections five and six.
H. Real estate conveyed to an officer under this chapter shall, un- Acts t872·S. ch.
less such court direct otherwise, be sold, after giving, at least thirty
2'Z7.
day's notice, by posting the same at the door of the court house of 6 Rand. 735·
his county und some other conspicuous place, near the residence of
the owner, if he resides in the county, or if a newspaper be published
in the county, such notice shall be inserted therein at least once a
week for four successive weeks, and be conveyed to the purchaser by
the officer or bis deputy. An officer to whom there is a delivery under this chapter, when the delivery is of money, bank notes: or any
goods or chattels, shall dispose of the same as if levied on by him,
under a writ of fieri fucias, and when the delivery is of evidence of
debts (other than such hank notes) may receive payment of such
debts within sixty days after such delivery.
Any evidence of debt
or security remaining in his hands at the end of sixty days shall be
returned by him to the clerk's offlce of such court.
And the court
shall make such order to enforce payment of such debt, or other security as is deemed best.
For a failure to make such return, he may
be proceeded against as if an express order of said court for such return bad been disobeyed.
I 0. On a suggestion by the judgment creditor, that, by reason oft-its t87'l·3. eh.
, . Jiucuis,
. t h ere ts. a lita bili
JO. rer,
t h e liten o f hiis writ. o f ft.ti·,
· 1 ity on any person tiJAA'l.. § ch.
. d gment
. d· e b- tor, a summons may lie sue·d out o f the e1:!Grntt.401.408.
ot her t h ant h e JU
w. Va. 528.
.
. court o f t l re county in
. w lriic l1 sue h4reW.V11.648.i03.
o ffl ce o f t h e c l er k o f t b e circuit
w. va. 1a1,
other person resides, upon an attested copy of said execution being U8 v«. 115.
file<l with said clerk, to be preserved by him in his office, or if he be ~\r. vs. 10.
a non-resident of the State, in the county in which be may be found,:
against such person, to answer such suggestion, the return day of 33 w · Ya. ™·
which summons may be the next term of said court.
w

•

w

i~.'ct

,r.

~r: \~~-~~-

Digitized by

Google

892

[CH. 141.

EXECUTIONS.

11. The person summoned shall be examined on oath in open
court, unless the judgment creditor consent that bis sworn answer in
19 w. v«. 115. writing may be filed.
If it appear on such examination or answer,
that there is any such liability on him at the time of the service of
the summons, or at any time thereafter, and before the time of answering, or the return day of the execution, whichever comes first, the
court may order him to pay any debts or deliver any estate for which
there is such liability, or pay the value of such estate, to any officer
whom it rutty designate; and the levy of an execution on such.order
shall be valid, although levied by such officer.
3• ch.
12. If such person after being served with the summons twenty
~~: ~!~.1~. days, fail to appear, or it be suggested that he has not fully dis!
closed his liability, the court may either compel him to appear or
27 w. v». 314. bear proof of any debt due by him to, or effects in bis hands of the
debtor, and make such orders in relation thereto: as if what is so
proved had appeared on bis examination or answer, or if it is suggested
by the creditor, that the person so summoned has not fully disclosed
the debts due by him to, or effects in bis hands of the execution
debtor, the court shall cause a jury to he impaneled without any formal pleadings, to inquire as to such debts or effects and shall proceed in respect to any such found by the jury, in the same manner as
if they had been confessed by the person so summoned.
Acts IR'i'".?·3. ch.
13. Any person summonedunder the tenth section may, before the
:mt¥ ia
J
1882. ch. l!..>'7.
return day of the summons, deliver and pay to the officer serving it,
what he is liable for; and the officer shall give a receipt for, and make
return of, what is so paid and delivered.
And if it be also suggested
as provided for in the tenth section of this chapter, that there is a
certain sum due from such person to the judgment debtor, and if such
person, after being served with the summons twenty days, fail to appear and contest the same, or answer the suggestion, the court may
give judgment against him in favor of the judgment creditor for the
amount so suggested.
Acts 1872-3, ch.
14. U nless such person appear to be liable for more than is 80 de:?18. ~ 14.
188:!. ch. 121.
livered and paid, there shall be no judgment agatnst him for costs.
In other cases judgment under the eleventh and twelfth sections may
be for such costs and against such party as the court may deem just.
Aet,- rsre-a ch.
15. For the recovery of u.ny estate, real or personal, on which a
;~~.\h~· l2i. writ of firr] facias is a lien under this chapter, or on which the [udg11~1;';::!"/~: ment on which such writ issues is a lien, or the enforcement of any
liability in respect to any such estate, a suit may be maintained either
at law or in equity, as the case may require, in the name of the officer to whom such writ was delivered. or in the name of any other
officer who may be designated for the purpose hy an order of the
court in which the judgment is, or if the judgment be of a justice, by an order of the circuit court of the county.
Xo officer shall
be bound to bring such suit unless bond with sufficient security lM'
given him to indemnify him agairn~t all expenses and costs which he
may incur or become liable for by reason thereof.
But any person
Act11 IR72·3, ch.
218,ill.

1882, ch. 121.
7 W. Vu. 368.

ti~s \f'·

~t: ~::: ~-

~~ ~r: ~:: : ~~:

Digitized by

Google

Cn, 142.J

893

~'OltTHCOMISO BONDS.

interested may bring such suit at his own costs nnd in the officer's
name.
rn. An officer receiving money under this chapter shall, within ii~~; 1:!f.!·:t 1'11.
thirty days after receiving it, make return thereof to the court or to 188'!. ch, l:!'i.
the clerk's office of the court in which the judgment is, or if it wns
rendered by a justice to the circuit court of the county, and for failing so to do, shall he liable as if he had acted under an order of said
court. After deducting from said money, commissions allowed by
law, and his necessary expenses and costs including reasonable fees
to counsel. he shall within thirty days pay the net proceeds to the
parties entitled thereto, and he and his sureties and their representatives shall be liable therefor in like manner as if the same bad been
made under n writ of firr] fucias,
.\l'ts um-a . ..i1.
17. Although a judgment creditor avail himself of the benefit of~~\'J: l:."i.
this chapter, he may nevertheless (without impairing his lien under I'.! Gru•t. -tofl.
it) from time to time issue other executions upon his judgment until
the same be satisfied, subject to the limitations prescribed by law.
CHAPTER CXLll.
(.\s 11mP111l,•d un,I r,•-1•1111rlt•d.
(I],'
SE<'.

It•\'\ lllll ti. r«. ,\:,·.. 1111n· t11kt•
f<irthl'Olll.illla! bunt); propNI)
tlw11 lo
r,·n111in with ,h•htor.
1'r111•1·ss mn) !Jt• lt•vit•tl 011 oth,·r pro1wrt)'.
wlu-n.
Wh,·n pro1wrt.Y 1101 ,J.·lin·r,•d 1.111rs11:111t
to cundlt iou or bond, whut to lw don ...
P,•rson ,.,i:ninl! such bond. liuhl« to whut

t. Offlcn

2.

:t
-1.

~·•· .\cit- 1Rfl2. eh. M.l

•'ORTIICO)()S(l

noxns.

St:e.
r,.
fl.
7.
I(

111 :lt'tion or 111otio11 011 such bond tuken
1111d,•r ulstrPss w11rrttnt: t1..r,,11,l1111t 11111.r
111111,;,· ,·ntaln
clt•r,•uc,•.
n_ii,:hl,- or ohl_it:•··· whvu hontl is 111111sllt'd.
~ .. fortlwomma: ho11tl to ht> tukr-n, when.
What •·11•lt!rs,•111••11t ,•h•rl,; to rnuk« wh .. 11
110 bond ,,. to IH• tukvn.

For rorm-r law
011 tilt' suhj,•ct.
r thl. ,•hn ,tPr
~ ....
I
•h
1119
1860
For'ru~tl;,.rr••f:

(~ml,• v·a:

....r•'lll'•-·~-~··•· ~··(_•·
t lou»,

t•Xtl'llt.

l. The sheriff or other officer levying a writ of firr] faciu« or dis- .\cts l~J-:J. ch.
tress warrant, may take from the debtor, a bond with sufficient se- l~\l;_ oo.
curity, payable to the creditor, in a penalty not more than double
'*'· 1111.
the true value of the property levied upon as ascertained and fixed 1 <'1'11 -tH.
:! Cull 2'1Cl.
by himself, reciting the service of such a writ or warrant, describ- :l c11111a. n~t
.
.
l
. } h
li '
l IL ,\: :\I. :? I I.
ing the property, speci. fymg
tts true va ue, wit 1 t e cone 1t10n that s 11. ,\: M . .:19"1·
.
h
l
l
I
f
l
lr
h
tllln.
the property be f ort I iconnng at t e < ay anc p ace o sa e.
, pon t e 21 )lunr.
:\l1111r. ~.
.
f
b
I
1
.
.
I
d
th
I
.
l
:i )lunr. 417.
givmg o a om, as ierein provu e ,
e property so eviec upon 4 :\tuur. ~1.
6 :\funr. IHI.
· d to remain
· ·m th e possessrou
·
s h a 11 h e permitte
o f th e < l eht or: at hits 1-·or
othvr c11s1•.•
SPt' r1H1( uot«,
risk.
2. If the property le,·ied upon, as aforesaid, be not sufficient to .\,·ts 1~.! ... h;OO.
pay the plaintiff's debt, interest and costs, and the fees and commissions of the officer, the execution or warrant, while in force, may be
levied upou other party, if any be found, or a new execution may be
sued out, upon the return of the former, for the residue of the debt,
interest and costs.
But such execution shall not be levied upon the
property mentioned in the bond, without the consent of the persons
liable therein .

1~~-~:

$

.;i Runt!. 400. n:!:?: 1 L•·iich :m. 44'J: :l 1, .. 11!11 311.!: 4 J.,•ii,:h 300: P f.,.lirh ~:
IO L,•i1th 490: 1
Roh. Mr,: :!<ir11tt rrs, 4111. -t'.!O: :! w. \"11. :!:,, 4UI: :i W. \"11. :."10: r, W. \'11. :a,7: >< w. \"11. 1113:
DW. \"K.41:
II\\'. \·a.:lo'i: 1: 14 W. v». 00: Jr,W .\·11.3.JS: 16 W. \"u. 31\1: rr w. Va.iiY: It(
W. Va.:l.11; IUW. vs.eu.
riw. ,·11.&".4: :!9\\'. \'1,.i'H: 00\\'. \'n.700.
0

Digitized by

Google

894

FoRTHCOlflNG

[CH. 142.

BONDS.

3 ' If the property~ 1 or anv.J of it ' mentioned, in the bond be not delivered as therein provided, the officer, unless payment be made of
}~ ~~~~~:;_2in. the amount due on the execution or warrant, including his fees and
commissions, shall forthwith return the said bond to the clerk's
office from which the execution issued, or if it be a distress warrant,
to the clerk's otflce of the circuit court of the county in which such warrant was issued. The clerk shall endorse on the bond the date of
its return; and against such of the persons who signed the same as
may be alive when it is so returned, it shall have the force of a judgment.
But no execution shall issue thereon under this section.
The persons signing said forfeited bond shall be liable for the
fi!2. ch. oo. true value of the property therein mentioned, and not delivered as
~!i w. \"u. tl.">-1.
aforesaid, with interest on such value from the date of the bond, and
costs incurre.l in proceedings upon the bond,
And the obligee in
such bond, or his assignee or personal representative, may recover
said sum and interest, or so much thereof as may be necessary to
satisfy his demand against the defendant in the execution or warrant
with costs, by action or motion against the persons signing said
bond.
And in case the said obligee fail for any cause, to recover a
judgment on said bond, or to collect the amount specified in any such
judgment, or any part. thereof, he may proceed against the defendant
in the original judgment for the amount remaining unpaid, in the
same manner as· if such bond had not been given.
Act;; 181"..!-:t ch.
5. In an action or motion on such bond when it is taken under a
l~}ii\t :!O. distress warrant, the defendants may make defence on the ground
1882. ch. oo.
h
I
1·
f
t
t nue
,.)
.m w h o l e or in
. part, or was
11 w. \'n. :!.;o. t at t re l istress was or ren · no
otherwise illegal.
.\ct,;
ch.
6 . If any sue I 1 l»onrl Lne utt an) · ti.une quas h e d , th
JOI.§ rsre-a
. e o bl.igee, I >estid es
5.
~~{ ,~;/~iu. his remedy against the officer, may have such execution on his [udgH! '' · v». fitl7. ment or issue such distress warrant, as would have been lawful if
such bond had not been taken .
. \,•.ts ltr.2-3. ch.
7. No bond for the deliverv.J of property- shall be taken on an ex1111. ~ 6.
IM~!.ch. &I.
ecution on n forthcoming bond, nor on an execution on a judgment
against a sheriff or ot her officer, or a deputy of such sheriff, for
money received by any such officer or deputy, by virtue of his otflce,
or against any such otllcer or his personal representative, in favor of
n surety of such orllcer, or against such deputy of any such officer
or his surety or personal reproscntntive. in favor of his principal or
the personal rr-presentnt ive of such principal, for money paid or a
judgment rendered for a default in otlice ; nor on an execution against
nn overseer of the poor, or his personnl representative, or justice or
constnble for money received hy him us such, nor on any other execution on which the clerk is required hy law to endorse that "nosecurity is to be taken, ··
.\,·1" 187'.!-3. ch.
R. On every oxccut ion on which such bond is prohibited from beJOI.§ t.
ing gin~11, the endorsement "no security is to he taken,·· sh:111 he
1814'1. ch. 00.
made by the clerk.
Acts 187:!-3, eh.
101. •i 2.
~~J. cb.1~· ·""'
ouratt.
, .. , ..... .,.

i1~~3',~t.P·:gr: 4.

Digitized by

Google

