LN AC1‘ TO ESTABLISH A CODE OF CIVIL PROCEDURE FOR ‘HIE TBBIITOIIY
OF WYOMING.

. 9
Be it enacted by the Council and Home of Representatives
of the Territory of Wyoming, as follows :

TITLE I.

Forms of Civil Actions.

SEC. 1. This act shall be known as the code of civil
procedure of the territory of Wyoming.

SEC. 2. The rule of the common law, that statutes in
derogation thereof are to be strictly construed, has no
application to this code. Its provisions and all proceedings
under it, shall be li_berally construed, with a view to promote
its object, and assist the parties in obtaining justice.

SEC. 3. The distinction between actions at law, and the
forms of all such actions and suits, heretofore existing is
abolished; and there shall be hereafter but one form of
action, which shall be called the civil action.

SEC. 4. Remedies, in courts of justice, are divided into.
First, Actions; Second, Special proceedings.

' SEC. 5. Anaction is an ordinary proceeding in a court
of justice, by which a party prosecutes another party, for
the enforcement or protection of a right, the redress or
prevention of a wrong, or the punishment of a public offense.

SEO. 6. Every other remedy is a special proceeding’.

SEC. 7. Actions are of two kinds: First, Civil; Second,
Criminal.

SEC. 8. 'A criminal action is one prosecuted by the
territory as a party against a person charged with a public‘
cfense, for the punishment thereof.

Site. 9. Every other is a civil action.

SEO. 10. Where the violation of a right admits of both
a civil and criminal remedy, the right to prosecute the one is
not merged in the other. i

SEO. 11. In all actions, the party complaining shall be 1
known as the plaintiff, and the adverse party as the
defendant.

SEC. 12.- There can be no feigned issues ; but a
question of fact, not put in issue by the pleadings, may be
tried by a jury upon an order for the trial, stating distinctly
and plainly, the question of fact to be tried, and such order

‘ is the only authority necessary for a trial.

TITLE H.

Time of Commencing C'iv-il Actiom.

SEC. 13. This title shall not apply to actions already
commenced, but the statutes now in force shall be applicable
to such cases, according to the subject of the action, and
without regard to form.

SEC. 14. Civil actions can only be commenced within
the periods prescribed in this title, after the cause of action
shall have accrued; but where, in special cases, a di&'erent

limitation is prescribed by statute, the action may be commenced accordingly.

Actions for the Recovery of Real Prcperty.

SEC. 15 An action for the recovery of the title or
possession of lands, tenements, or hereditaments, can only be
brought within twenty-one years after the cause of action
shall have ‘arisen or accrued.

SEC. 16. If a person entitled to commence any action
for the recovery of the title or possession of any lands,
tenements or hereditaments, be at the time his or her right
or title shall first descend or accrue, within the age of twentyone years, a married woman, insane or imprisoned, every
such person may, after the expiration of twenty-one years
from the time his or her ribht or title first descended or
accrued, bring such action within ten years after such
disability is removed, an-tl at no time thereafter.

SEC. 17. An action for the forcible entry and detainer
or forcible and unlawful d(‘i;eI1tl')I1 only of real property,

can only be brought within three years after the cause of
such action shall have accrued.

Actions otizcr t/’t.r:7z fer the Recovery of Real Pr~perf_y.

SEC. 18. Civil actionsx, other than for the recovery of
real property, can only be brought within the following
perio¢‘ls3, after the cause of action shall have accrued:

SEC. 19. Within five years; an :1: tion upon at sper°ialt_r,
or any agreement, contract or promise in writing or on a
foreign  udginent.

SEC. ‘.30. Within foumyears: .-in action upon a contract
not in writing, e.'~:prers~:e;l or isnplieaig an action upon a
liability created by tatutc, other than ai'orl'eiture or pe:;;il~.‘}'.

Site. 9.1. Within {our _year.<: An anion for trespass
upon real property; an action For taking, detaining or injuring pers;>:ml prope."t_V, incl-a:lin_,<_,g azrtiom for the specific
recovery of pe:°9on-al property; an action for i::jur_y to the
rights of the plaintiff zmt nrisizig on cont;-:1cta2.<l not hereinafter cmimeratevl; an action for relief on the ground of
lirautl, but the cause of action in sucli case shall not he
(l’.‘CillCLl to have accrueal until the «liseorery of the "Fraud.

SEC. 2'3. lliitliin ii-.)nr years: Actions brought for
darnages growing out of the failure or want of consicleration
of contracts expre.~;se«l or i;nplie.l, or for the recovery of
money paid upon contracts expresseel or implied, the COIlt~‘lllcration of which has wholly or in part failed. ,

SEC. 23. Within ten years: An action upon the official
bond or undertaking of an executor, administrator, guardian,
sheri&' or other officer; or upon the bond or undertaking

given in attachment, injunction or any case whatever required
by statute.

SEC. 24. Within one year: An action for libel, slander,
assault and battery, malicious prosecution or false imprisonment; an action upon a. statute for a. penalty or forfl-iture;
but where the statute _:iving .1‘-l1(.'ll action prescribes a different
limitation, the action may be brought within the period so
limited.

SEC. 2:3. An action for relief of any character not
herein provided for, can only be brought within four years
after the cause of action shall have accrued.

Sec. 26. If a person entitled to bring any action

mentioned in this title, other than for the recovery of real,

property, and except for it penalty or forfe'ture, he at the
time the cause of action accrued, witliin the age of twentyone years, a Dl3.I‘l'iC(l wcnzun insane or imprisoned, every such

person shall be entitled to bring such action within the
respectire times limited by this title after such disability
shall be removed. The ab.~;e:n;e from the territory, dearth,
or other disability of 3. non-re~.:itlcnt, save the cases mentioned
in this section, shall not operate to extend the period within
which actions 2'7: 1'.':m may be commenced by and against
such no:i-resident, or his representatives.

SEC. 27. Art action shall be deemed commence-;l within
the meaning of this title, as to the defendant at the date of
the summons which is served onhim; where service by
publication is proper, the action shall be deemed C0m‘.I1CIlCC£l
at the date ofthc first publication, which publication shall be
regularly made.

SEC. ‘28. It’, when a cause of action accrues ngaixtst a.
person, he he out of the territory, or shall have nbsconded or
concealed hii1:r.e.li', the period limited for the cotmneneement
of the action shall not bcginto run until he comes into the
territory, or while he is a.bsconded or COI1CC.‘tl~lL'(,l; and if,
after the cause of action accrues, he depart from the
territory, or abscond or conceal himself, the time of such
absence or concealment shall not be computed as any part
of the period within which the action must be brought.

SEC. 29. When a. cause of action has been fully barred
by the laws of any state, territory or country where the

defendant has previously resided, such bar shall be the same
defense-in this territory as though it had arisen under the
provisions of this title. ,

SEC. 30. In an action founded on contract, when any
part of the principal or interest shall have been paid, or an
acknowledgment of an existing liability, debt or claim, or
any promise to pay the same, shall have been madein writing,
an action‘ may be brought in such case within the period
prescribed for the same, after such payment, acknowledgment
or promise.

TITLE III.
Parties to Oivil Action.

SEC. 31. Every action must be prosecuted in the name
of the real party in interest, except as otherwise provided
in section thirty-four.

SEO. 32. The assignee of a thing in action may
maintain an action thereon in his own name and behalf,
without the name of the assignor.

SEC. 83. In the case of‘ an assignment offa thing in
action, the action by the assignee shall be without prejudice
to any set-oil‘ or other defense, existing at the time of, or
before notice of assignment; but this section shall not
apply to a negotiable promissory note, or bill of exchange
transferred in good faith, and upon good consideration,
before due.

SEC. 34. An executor, administrator, guardian, trustee
of an express trust, a person with whom or in whose name
a contract is made for the benefit of another, or a.person
expressly authorized by statute, may bring an action,
without joining with him the person for whose benefit it is
prosecuted; officers may sue and be- sued in such name as is
authorized by law, and oliicers’ bonds may be sued upon in
the same way.

SEC. 35. When a married woman is a party, her
husband shall be joined with her, except that;

Fz'rat,r When the action concerns her separate property,
she may sue alone; 3

Second, .When the action is between herself and her
husband, she may sue or be sued alone.

S50. 36. If a husband and wife be sued together, the
wife may defend for her own right; and if the husband
neglect to defend, she may defend for his right also.

SEC. 37. When an infant is a party, he shall appear
by guardian, who may be appointed by the court in which
the action is prosecuted or by a judge thereof.

SEC. 38. The guardian shall be appointed as follows:

First, When the plaintiff is an infant, upon the
application of the plaintiff, if he be of the age of fourteen
years, or if under that age, upon the application of a
relative or friend of the infant.

Second, When the infant is defendant upon the
application of the infant, if he be of the age of fourteen
years, and apply within ten days after the service of the
summons; if he be under the age of fourteen, or neglect so

I
to apply, then upon the application of any other party to
the action, or ofa relative or friend of the infant.

SEC. 39. A father. or in case of his death, or desertion

of his family, the mother may maintain an action for the
injury or death of a child; and a guardian for the injury or
death of his ward.

SEC. 40. All persons having an interest in the subject
of the action, and in obtaining the relief demande.l, may be

joined as plaintiffs, except pwhen otherwise provided in this
title.

plaintiff, or who is a necessary party to a complete determination or settlement of the question involved therein.

SEC. 42. Of the parties to the action, those who are‘
united in interest shall be joined as plaintiffs or defendants ;‘
but if the consent of any one who should have been joined as
plaintiff’ cannot be obtained, he may be made a defendant,
the reason thereof being stated in the petition} and when the
question is one of a common or -general interest of many
persons, or when the parties are numerous, and it is imprao~

ticable to bring them all before the court, one or more may
sue or defend for the benefit of all. Tenants in common,
joint tenants or co-partners, or any number less than all,
may jointly or severally bring or defend, or continue the
prosecution or defense of any action for the enforcement of
the rights of such person or persons.

SEC. 43. Persons severally liable upon the same obligation or instrument, including the parties to bills of exchange
and promissory notes, and suretics on the same or separate
instruments, may all, or any of them, be included in the
same action, at the option of the plaintiff.

SEC. 44. An action shall not abate by death or othc?
disability of a party, or by the transfer of any interest
therein, if the cause of action survive or continue. In case
of death or disability of a party, the court, on motion, may
allow the action to be continued by or against his representative or successor in interest. In case of any other transfer
of interest, the action may be continued in the name of the
original party, or the‘court may allow the person to whom
the transfer is made to be substituted in the action. After
verdict shall have been rendered in any action for a wrong,
such action shall not abate by the death of any party, but
the case shall proceed thereafter in the same manner as in
cases where the cause of action now survives by law.

SEC. 45. The court may determine any controversy

ibetween parties before it, when it can be done without

prejudice to the rights of others, or by saving their rights ;
but when a complete determination of the controversy cannot
be had without the presence of other parties, the court shall
order them to be brought in, and thereupon the party‘
directed by the court shall serve a copy of the summons in
the action, and the order aforesaid in like manner of service‘
of the original summons, upon each of the parties ordered to
be brought in, who shall have two days, or such time as the
court may order, after service, in which to appear and plead;
and in case such party fail to appear and plead within the
time aforesaid, the court may cause his default to be entered,
and proceed as in other cases of default, or may make such

other order as the condition of the. action and justice shall
require.

S80. 46. When in an action for the recovery of real or
personal property, any person having an interest in the
property, applies to be made a party, the court may order it
to be done.

SEC. 47. Upon the ahidavit of a defendant before
answer in an action upon contract, or for the recovery of
personal property», that some third party, without collusion
with him, has or makes a claim to the subject of the action,
-and that he is ready to pay or dispose of the same as the
-court may direct. the court may make an order for the safe
keeping. or for the payment, or deposit in court, or delivery.
of the subject of the action, to such person as it may direct,
and an order requiring such third party to appear in a
reasonable time and maintain or relinquish his claim against
the defendant. If sgch third party, being served with a
copy of the order by the sheriif or such other person as the
court may direct, fail to appear, the court may declare him,
barred of all claim in reference to the subject of the action,
against the defendant therein. If such third party appear,
he shall be allowed to make himself defendant in the action,
in lieu of the the original defendant, who shall be discharged
from all liability to either of the other parties in respect to
the subject of the action, upon his compliance with the order
of the court for the payment, deposit or delivery thereof.

SEC. 48. The provisions of the last section shall be
applicable to an action brought against a sheriff, or other:
oflicer, for the recovery of personal property taken by
him ‘under execution, or for the proceeds of such property
so taken and sold by him. And the defendant in such
action shall be entitled to the benefit of those provisions
against the party in whose favor the execution issued, upon
exhibiting to the court the process under which he acted,
with his afiidavit that the property, for the recovery of which
or its proceeds, the action is brought, was taken under such
process. ‘ '

SEO. 49. In an action against a sherif, or other r-7" J91’,

for the. recovery of property taken under an execution, and
replevied by the plaintiff in such action, the court may, upon
application of the defendant, and ofthe party in whose favor
the execution issued, permit the latter to be substituted as
the defendant, security for the cost being given.

TITLE IV.
The County in which Actions are to be Brought.

SEC. 50. Actions for the following causes must be

’ brought in the county in which the subject of the action is

situated, except as provided in section fifty-one;

First, For the recovery of real property, or of an estate
or interest therein; ,

Second, For the partition of real property ;

Third, For the sale of real property, under a mortgage,
lien, or other incumbrance or chaijge.

SEC. 51. If the real property, the subject of the action,
be an entire tract, and situated in two or more counties, or if
it consists of separate tracts situated in two or more
counties, the action may be brought in any county in which
any tract or part thereof is situated, unless it be an action to
recover the possession thereof; and if the property be an
entire tract, situated in two or more counties, an action to
recover the possession thereof may be brought in either of
such counties ; but if it consist of separate tracts in different
counties, the possession of such tracts must be recovered by
separate actions brought in the counties where they are
situated.

Site. 52. An action to compel the specific performance
of a contract of sale of real estate may be broughtintthe
county.where the defendants, or any of them, reside.

SEC. 53. Actions for the following causes must be
brought in the county where the cause, or some part thereof,
#7080 :

First, An action for the recovery of a fine, forfeiture or
penalty imposed by a statute ; except, when it is imposed for
an ofense committed on a river, or other stream of water,

or road, which is the boundary of two or more counties, the

action may be brought in any county bordering on such

river, water course or road, and o osite to the lace where.
PP P

the offense was committed; _

Second, An action ‘against a public omcer for an act
done by him in virtue or under color of his oilice, or for a
neglect of his official duty;

Third, An action on the oiiicial bond or undertaking of
a public otlieer.

SEC. 54. An action other than one of those mentioned,

in the first three sections of this title, against a corporation created by the laws of this territory, may be
brought in the county in which it is situated or has its
principal oflice or place of business, or in which any of the
principal odicers thereof may reside.

SEC. 55. An action against a railroad company, or any

owner of a line of mail stages, or other coaches, for an
injury to person or property upon the road or line, or upon
a liability as a carrier, may be brought in any county
through or into which the said read or line passes. _

SEC. 56. An action other than one of those mentioned in the first three sections of this title, against a

turnpike road company, may be brought in any county in
which any part of the road lies.

SEC. 57. An action other than one of those mentioned
in the iirst three sections of this title, against a non-resident
of this territory or a foreign corporation, may be brought in
any county in which there may be property of. or debts

owing to said defendant. or where said defendant may be‘

found; but if defendant be a foreign insurance company,
the action may be brought in any county where the cause,
or some part thcrcof,‘arose.

SEC. 58. Every other action must be brought in the
county in which the defendant, or some one of the defendants resides, or may be summoned. A

See. 59. And if any party to the action shall make
affidavit, that he believes that from the bias, prejudice or
partialityof the judge, he cannot get a fair and impartial
trial, the court shall change. the place of trial to some other

district; or for the conveniehce of parties, the judge may
request the judge of some other district, to try the action
in the county where the suit is pending.

TITLE V.

Commencement of a‘ C’z'm7 Act-ion.

SEO. 60. A civil action must be commenced by filing
in the oilice of the clerk of the proper court a
petition, and causing summons to be issued thereon;
Provided, That after the filing of the petition any defendant
in the action may appear and answer or demur, whether the
summons has been issued or not, and such appearance,
answer or demurrer, shall be deemed a waiver of summons.

SEC. 61. A copy of the petition need not accompany
the summons, but the defendant or plaintiff shall be entitled
to a copy of the petition, or any other paper filed in the
action, upon,application to the clerk theirefor; and the
costs of such copy shall be taxed among the costs in the

action.
SEC. 62. The plaintiff shall also file, with the clerk of

the court, a precipc, stating the names of the parties to the
action, and demanding that a summons issues thereon.
SEC. 63. The summons shall be issued by the clerk,

i shall be under seal of the court from which the same shall

issue, and shall be signed by the clerk. Its style shall be,
“ the territory of Wyoming, -——county,” audit shall
be dated the day it is issued. It shall be directed tothe
sheriff of the county in which the defendant resides, or may
be found, and command him to notify the defendant or
defendants named therein that he or they have been sued,
and must answer the petition filed by the plaintiff (giving
his name) at the time stated therein, or the petition will be
taken as true, and judgment rendered accordin gly, and

when the action is for the recovery of money only, there
shall be indorsed on the writ the amount to be specified in
the precipc, for which, with interest, judgment will be taken
if the defendant fail to answer. If defendant fail to

appear, judgment shall. not be rendered for a larger amount,
and the costs.

SEC. 64. When the action is rightly brought in any
county, according to the provisions of title five, a summons
shall be issued to any other county, against any one or more
of the defendants at plaintiff ’s request.

SEC. 65. The summons shall be served and returned by
the omcer to whom it is delivered, except when issued to
any other county than the one in which the action is
commenced, within ten days from its date, and when issued
to another county, shall be made returnable in not less than
twenty nor more than sixty days from the date thereof, at
the option of the party having it issued.

SEC. 66. When a writ is returned “not served,” other
writs may be issued, until the defendant or defendants shall
be summoned; and when defendants reside in di&'erent
counties, writs may be issued to such counties at the same
time. .

Actual Service of Summons.

SEC. 67. The summons shall be served by the oilicer
to whom it is directed, who shall indorse on the original
writ, the time and manner of service. It may also be
served by any person not a party to the action, appointed by
the oiiicer to whom it is directed. The authority of such
person shall be indorsed on the writ, when the writ is served
by a person appointed by the oiiicer to whom it is directed,
or when the service is made out of this territory, the return
shall be verified by oath or ailirmation.

SEC. 68. The service shall be by delivering a copy of
the summons to the defendant personally, or by leaving one
at his usual place of residence, with some member of his
family, or other person in his employ over the age of twelve
years. to whom the contents thereof shall be expounded, at
any time before the return day.

SEC. 69. In all cases the return must state the time and

manner of service.
SEC. 70. The odicer to whom the summons is directed,

must return the same at or before the time therein stated.

SEC. 71. An acknowledgment on the back of the summons, or the voluntary appearance of a defendant, is
equivalent to service.

SEC. 72. A summons against a corporation may be
served upon the president, mayor, chairman of the board of
directors or trustees, or other chief oliicer; or if its chief
oliicer is not found in the county, upon its cashier, treasurer,
secretary, clerk or agent; or if none of the aforesaid ofiicers
can be found, by a copy left at the ofiice or last usual place
of business of such corporation.

SEC. 73. When the defendant is an incorporated insurance company, and the action is brought in a county in
which there is an agency thereof, the service may be upon
the chief oiiicer of such agency.

SEC. 74. When the defendant is a foreign corporation
having an agent in this territory, the service may be made
upon such agent.

SEO. 75. ' When the defendant is a minor under the age
of fourteen years, the service must be upon him, and upon
his guardian or father; or, if neither of these can be found,
then upon his mother, or the person having the care or
control of the infant, or withwhom he lives. If neither of
these can be found, or if the minor he more than fourteen
years of age, service on him alone shall be sufficient. The
manner of service may be the same as in the case of adults.

C'on3t‘ructz've Service.

See. 76. Service may be made by publication in either
of the following cases :

First, In actions brought under the fiftieth, fifty-first an-I
fifty-second sections of this code, when any or all of the
defendants reside out of the territory.

Secrml, In actions brought to establish or set aside a
will, where any or all of the defendants reside out of the
territory. _

Third, In actions brought against a non-resident of this
territory, or a foreign corporation having in this territory,

property or debts owing to them, sought to be taken by any
of the provisional remedies, or to be appropriated in any
way. .
Fourth, In actions which relate to, or the subject of
which is, real or personal property in this territory, where
any defendant has or claims a lien or interest actual or contingent therein, or the relief demando.,~d consists wholly or
partially in excluding him from any interest therein, and
such defendant is a non-resident of the territory, or a foreign
corporation. _

Fzfth, In all actions where the defendant, being a
resident of the territory, has departed therefrom, or from
the county of his residence, with intent to delay or defraud
his creditors. or to avoid the service of a summons, or keeps
himself concealed therein with the like intent.

SEC. 77. Before service can be made by publication, an
affidavit must be filed, that service of a summons cannot be
made within this territory, on the «lgil-ntlant or deE'endants,
to be served by publication; and that the case is one of those
mentioned in the preceding section. When such atlidavit is
filed, the party may proceed to make service by publication.

SEC 78. The publication must be made six consecutive
weeks, in some newspaper printed in the county where the
petition is filed, if there be any printed in such county ; and
if there be not, in some nexvspaper printed in this territory
of general circulation in that county. I: must contain a
summary statement of the object and prayer of the petition,
mention the court wherein it is filed. and notify the person

or persons thus to be served when they are required to

answer.

See. .79. Service by publication shall be deemed complete when it shall have been made in the manner and for
the time prescribed in the preceding section; and such
service shall be proved by the ailidavit of the printer or his
foreman or principal clerk, or other person knowing the
same. .

SEC. 80. In all cases where service may be made by
publication, and in all other cases, where the defendants are

non-residents. and the cause of action arose in the territory,
suit may be brought in the county where the cause of action
arose, and personal service of the summons may be made out
of the territory by the sheriif or some person appointed by
him for that purpose. In all cases where service of a summons is made on a person without the territory, proof of
such service must be made by allidavit, stating the time and

manner of service, and such service shall be made in thesame manner as summonses are served on parties residing
within this territory.

SEC. 81. A par-ty against whom a judgment or order
has been rendered, without other service than by publication
in a newspaper, may, at any time within three years after
the date of the judgment or order, have the same opened,
and be let in to defend. Before the judgment or order shall
he opened, the applicant shall give notice to the adverse
party of his intention to make such an application, and shall
file a full answer to the petition, pay all costs, if the court
require them to be paid, and make it appear to the satisfaction of the court, by allldavit, that during the pendency of
the action he had no actual notice thereof in time to appear
in court and make his defense, but the title to any property,
the subject of the judgment or order sought to be opened,
which by it, or in consequence of it, shall have passed to a
purchaser in good faith, shall not be effected by any pro-.
c-ceilings under this section, nor shall they effect the title of
any property sold before judgznent under an attachment.
The adverse party, on the hearing of an application to open
a judgment, or order, as provided by this section, shall he
allowed to present counter athdavits, to show that during the
pendency of the action, the applicant had notice thereof in
time to appear in court and make his defense.

SEC. 82. In actions where it shall be necessary to make
the heirs or devisees of any deceased person defendants, and
it shall appear, by the allidavit of the plaintiff annexed to his
po.-tition, tint the names of such heirs or devisees, or any of
them, and their residence, are unknown to the plaintiff.
proceedings may be had against such unknown heirs or

devisees, without naming them, and the court shall make
such order respecting service as may be deemed proper, if

service by publication be ordered, the publication shall not
be less than six weeks. ’

SEC. 83. When the action is against two or more‘
defendants, and one or more shall have been served, but not
all of them, the plaintiff may proceed as follows :

First, If the action be against defendants jointly indebted
upon contract, he may proceed against the defendants served,
unless the court otherwise direct, and if he recover judgment,
it may be entered against all the defendants thus jointly
indebted so far only as it may be enforced against the joint
property of all, and the separate property of the defendants
served; and if they are subject to arrest, against the persons
of the defendants served.

Second, If the action be against defendants severally
liable, he may, without prejudice to.his rights against those
not served, proceed against the defendants served in the same
manner as if they were the only defendants.

SEC. 84. Nothing in this code shall he so construed as
to make a judgment. against one or more defendants jointly
or severally liable, a bar to another action against those not
served.

SEC. 85. When the summons has been served, or publication made, the action is pending, so as to charge third
persons with notice of its pendency, and while pending no
interest can be acquired by third persons in the subject
matter thereof, as against the plaintiff’s title.

SEC. 86. When any part of real property, the subject
matter of an action", is situated in any other county or
counties than the onein which the action is brought, a certified
copy of the judgment in such action must be recorded in the
register of deed's office of such other county or counties,
before it shall operate therein as notice, so as to charge
third persons, as provided in the preceding section. It shall
operate as such notice without record, in the county where
it is rendered; but this section shall not apply to actions or

proceedings under any statute in force prior to the passage
of this act, which does not require such record.

TITLE VI. ‘ .

Joinder in Actions.

Site. 97. The plaintiff may unite several causes of
action in the same petition, when they are included in either
one of the following classes :_

First, The same transaction or transactions connected
with the same subject of action ;

Sé.C()I1(l. Contracts, express or implied;

Third, Injuries, with or without force, to person and
property or either;

Iourt/2, Injuries to chamcter;

F2_'ft/a, Claims to recover real propert_v with or without
damages for the withholding tliereof, and the rents and profits
of the same; _

Sz'.rt}a., Claims to recover the possession of personal
property’ with or without damages for the withholding
thereof;

Sea-mu‘/2, Claims against a trustee by virtue of :1 contract,
or by operation of law ; 1’rcz'z'c.’c(I, That an action for
malicious arrest and prosecution, or either of them, may be
united with an action for either injury to character or to
the person.

SEC. 88. The causes of action so united must effect all
the parties to the action and not require dif’ferent places of
trial. °

TITLE VII.

Of I"lcae.lz'2z_qs in C-'z'vz'l Actions.

SEC. 89. The pleadings are the formal allegation? by
the parties _of their respective claims and defenses, for the
judgment ofthe court.

SEC. 90. The forms of pleadings in civil actions. and
the rules by which the suilitaicncy of the. pleadings shall be
determined, shall be those prescribed by this act.

SEC. 91. The only pleadings on the part of the plaiutii

shall be the petition, demurrer or reply to thcdefendanfs
answer; and the only pleadings on the part of t_he defendant
shall be the answer or demurrer either to the petition or
reply of the plaintiff.

SEC. 92. The petition shall contain:

First, The title of the action specifying the name of the
court, and the name of the county in which the action is
brought, and the name of the parties to the action, plaintii
anl defendant ; I T

Second, A statement of the facts constituting the cause
of action in ordinary and concise language;

Third, A demand of the relief which the plaintiff claims.
If the recovery of money be demanded, the amount thereof
shall be stated, and if interest thereon be claimed, the time
from which interest is to be computed shall be also stated.

SEC. 93. When the petition contains more than one
cause of action, each shall be separately stated and
numbered. '

SEC. 94. The defendant may demur to the petition
within the time required in the summons to answer, when it
appears upon the face thereof; either,

First, That the court has no jurisdiction of the person of
the defendant, or of the subject of the action ; or,

Second, That the plaintiff has not the legal capacity to
sue; or,

Tlzird, That there is another action pending between
the same parties for the same cause; or,

Fourth, That there is a defect or misjoinder of parties,
plaintiff or defendant; or,

Fzftlz, That several causes of action have been improperly
united; or,Sizth, That the petition does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action; '

Seventh, That the petition is ambiguous, unintelligible
or uncertain.

SEC. 95. The demurrer shall distinctly specify the

grounds upon which any of the objections to the petition are
taken. Unless it do so, it shall be regarded as objecting

only that the petition does not state facts suilicient tn
constitute a cause of action.

SEC. 96. The defendant may dcmur to the whole
petition, or to one or more of the several causes of action
therein stated, and answer the residue ; or may demur and
answer at the same time.

SEC. 97. If the petition be amended, a copy of the
amendment shall be filed, or the court may, in its discretion,
require the petition, as amended, to be filed, and a copy of
the amendment shall be served upon every defendant to be
effected thereby ;‘ or upon his attorney, if he has appeared
by attorney. The defendant shall answer or demur in such
time as may he ordered by the court, and judgment by
default may be entered upon a failure to answer as in other
cases.

SEC. 98. When any of the matters enumerated in
section nine_ty—four do not appear upon the face of the
petition, the objection may be taken by answer.

SEC. 99. If no such objection be taken, either by
demurrer or answer, the defendant shall be deemed to have
waived the same, excepting only the objection to the jurisdiction of the court, and that the petition does not state facts
sufliciant to constitute a cause of action.

SEC. 100. When a demurrer is sustained on the ground
of misjoinder of several causes of action, the court, on
motion of the plaintiff, shall allow him with costs
to file several petitions, each including such of said causes
of action as might have been joined; and an action shall be
docketed for each of said petitions, and the same shall he
proceeded in without further service.

Answers.

SEC. 101. The answer of the defendant shall contain:

First, a general or specific denial to each allegation of
the petition controvcrted by the defendant, or a denial
thereof, according to his information and belief. A general
denial shall only put in issue the material and express
allegations of the petition.

Second, A statement of any new matter constituting a
defense, counter-claim or set-off, in ordinary and concise
language, and without repetition.

SEC. 102. The defendant may set forth in his answer
as many grounds of defense, counter-claim and set-of as he
may have. Each must be separately stated and numbered.
and they must refer in an intelligible manner to the cause of
action which they are intended to answer.

SEC. 103. The counter-claim mentioned in the last
section must be one existing in favor of a defendant, and
‘against a plaintiff, between whom a several judgment might
be had in the action, and arising out of the contract o_r
transaction set forth in the petition as the foundation of the
p1aintilT’s claim, or connected with the subject of the action.

SEC. 104. If the defendant omit to set up the counterclaim or set-oil‘, he cannot recover costs against the plaintiff
in any subsequent action thereon ; but this section shall not
npply to causes of action which are stricken out of or withdrawn lirom the answer, as provided in section one hundred
and five and one hundred and twenty nine.

SEC; 105. When it appears that anew party is necessary
to a final decision upon the counter-claim, the court may
either permit the new party to be made by a summons to
reply to the counter-claim, or may direct the counter-claim
to be stricken out of the answer, and made the subject
of a separate action. . i

I SEC. 106. A set-off can only he pleaded in an action
founded on contract, and must be a cause of action arising
upon cont: act, or ascertained by the decision of the court.

SEC. 107. When it appears that a new party is
necessary to a final decision upon the set-oil‘, the court shall
permit the new party to be made; if it also appear that,
owing to the insolvency or non-residence of the plaintiff, or
other cause, the defendant will be in danger of losing his
claim, unless permitted to use it as a set-_oil‘.

SEC. 108. .When cross-demands have existed between
persons under such circumstances, that if one had brought
an action against the other, a counter-claim or set-of could

have been set up, neither can be deprived of the benalit
thereof by the assignment or death of the other, but the
two demands must be deemed compensated, so far as they
equal each other.

Sec. 1Q9. The guardian of an infant or person of an
unsound mind, or attorney for a person in prison, shall deny
in the answer all material allegations of the petition prejudicial to such defendant.

Reply.

SEC. 110. There shall be no reply, except upon the
allegation of a counter-claim or set-oil‘, in the answer.

' SEC. 111. When the answer contains new matter, constituting a counter-claim or set-oil’, the p‘laintif‘fn1a_v.reply
to such new matter, denying. generally or specifically, each
allegation controverted by him, and he may allege, in
ordinary and concise language and without repetition, any
new matter not inconsistent with the petition, constituting a
defense to such new matter in the answer; or he may demur
to the same for insuthciency, stating in his demurrer, the
grounds thereof, and he may demur to one or more of such
defenses set up in the answer, and reply to the residueSEC. 112. If the reply of the pla.intifl', to any defense
set up by the answer, be insufiicient, the defendant may
demur thereto, stating the grounds of such demurrer.

General Rules of Pleading.

SEC. 113. The answer or demurrer by the defendant
shall be tiled within twent.y days after the day on which the
summo. s is returnable; the reply or demurrer shall be filed
within thirty days after the day on which the summons was
made returnable; the demurrer to the reply shall be hled
within forty days after the day on which the summons was
made returnable.

SEC. 114. The court, or any judge thereof, in vacation,
may, in his discretion, and upon such terms as may be just,
allow an answer or reply to be made, or other act to be done,
after the time limited by this act, or by an order enlarge
such time.

Ste. 115. Every pleading, in a court of record, must
be subscribed by the party or his attorney. T

SEC. 116. In all actions, allcga.tions of the execution of
written instruments and indorsements thereon, of the exist-W
ence af a corporation or co—partnership, or of any appointment or authority, shall be taken as true, unless the denial
of the same be verified by the atlidavit of the party, his
agent or attorney.

SEC. 117. The verification mentioned in the last section
shall not be required to the answer of a guardian defending
for an infant or person of unsound mind, or a person
imprisoned.

SEC. 118. If there be several persons united in interest
and pleading together, the affidavit may be made by any one
of such parties. When a municipal or other corporation is
a party, the verification may be made by an officer thereof,
its agent or attorney.

Sac. 119. The aflidavit shall be suilieient if it state that
the aliiant believes the facts stated in the pleading to be true. i

SEC. 120. In all cases where the party pleading is a
non-resident of the county in which the action is brought,
or if he shall be absent from the county where the pleading
is filed, an aflidavit made before filing the pleading, stating
the substance of the facts afterwards inserted in the pleading,
shallfbe a suflicient verification; such aiiidavit shall be hled
with the pleading intended to be verified thereby.

SEC. 121 Tue allidavit verifying pleadings may be
made before any person before whom a deposition might be
taken, and must be signed by the party making the same;
and the officer before whom the same was taken shall certify
that it was sworn to or aiiirmed before him, and signed in
his presence. r The certificate of such oflicer, signed oilicially
by him, shall be evidence that the affidavit was duly made,

that the name of the oiiicer was written byhimself, and that
he was such oiiicer. '

SEC. 122. The verification of the pleading does not
apply to the amount claimed, except in actions founded on

contracts, express or implied, for the payment of money
only.

SEC. 123. When the aflidavit is made by the agent or
attorney, it must set forth the reason Why it is not made by
the party himself. It can be made by the agent. or attorney
only:

First, When the facts are Within the knowledge of "the
agent or attorney.

Second, When the plaintiff is an infant, or of unsound
mind, or imprisoned.

TIn'rd, When the pleading to be verified is founded upon
a written instrument for the payment of money only, and
[such] instrument is in the possession of the agent or
attorney. Fourth, When the party is not a resident of, or is absent
from the county.

SEC. 124. In the construction of any pleading, for the
purpose of determining its effect, its allegations shall be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between
the parties.

SE6. 125. All fictions in pleadings are abolished.

SEC. 126. The title of a cause shall not be changed in
any of its stages.

SEC. 127. If the action, counter claim, or set-off be
founded on account, or on anote, bill or written instrument.
as evidence of indebtedness, a copy thereof must be attached
to and filed with the pleading, except in actions founded
upon notes issued to circulate as money. If not so attached
and filed, the reason thereof must be shown in the pleading.

SEC. 128. If redundant, scandalous or irrelevant matter
be inserted in any pleading, it may be stricken out, on
motion of the party prejudiced thereby, and when the allegations of a pleading are so indefinite and uncertain that the
precise nature of the charge or defense is not apparent, the
court may, on motion, require the pleading to be made
definite and certain by amendment.

SEC. 129. The court, at any time before the dual

submission of the cause, on mqfion of the defendant. may

allow a counter claim or set-off, set up in the answer, to be
withdrawn, and the same may become the subject of another
action. On motion of either party, to be made at the time
‘such counter claim or set-oil‘, is Withdrawn, an action on the
same shall be docketed, and proceeded in as in like cases after
process served; and the court shall direct the time and
manner of pleading therein. If the action be not so
docketed, it may afterwards be commenced in the
ordinary way.

SEC. 130. In pleading a judgment or other deter-‘
mination of a court or ollicer of special urisdiction, it shall:
be sufficient to state that such judgment or determination
was duly given or made, and the jurisdiction of any such
court or ollicer shall be presumed until the contrary appears.

SEC, 181. In pleading the performance of conditions
precedent in a contract, it shall be sufficient to state that the
party duly performed all the conditions on his part; and if
such allegation be controverted, the party pleading must
establish, on ‘the trial, the facts showing such performance.

SEC. 132. In an action, counter-claim or set-o&‘,
founded upon an account, promissory note, bill of exchange
or other instrument, for the unconditional payment of money
only, it shall be suflicient for the party to give a copy of the
account or instrument, with all credits and indorsements
thereon, and to state that there is due to him on such
account or instrument, from the adverse party, a specified
sum which he claims, with interest. When others than the
makers of a promissory note or the acceptors of a bill of
exchange, are parties in the actions, it shall be necessary to
state also the kind of liability of the several parties, and the
facts, as they may be, which fix their liability.

SEC. 133. In pleading a private statute, or a right
derived therefrom, it shall be suilicient to refer to such statute
by its title, and the day of its passage, and the court thereupon shall take judicial notice thereof. ' ‘

SEC. 134. In action for a libel or slander, it shall be
suflicient to state, generally, that the defamatory matter was
published or spoken of the plaintif, and if the allegation be

denied, the plaintiff must prove on the trial, the facts showing
that the defamatory matter was published or spoken of him.

SEC. 135. In the actions mentioned in the last section,
the defendants may allege the truth of the matter charged
as defamatory, and may prove the same, and any mitigating
circumstances to reduce the amount of damages, or he may
prove either.

SEC. 136. In an action for the recovery of real property, it shall be described with sullicientlcertainty to enable
an oliicer holding an execution to identify it.

SEC. 137. Every material allegation of the petition not
controverted by the answer, and every material allegation of
new matter in the answer constituting a counter claim or setoff not controverted by the reply, shall, for the purpose of the
action, be taken as true; but the allegation of new matter
in the answer, not relating to a counter claim or set-off, or of
new matter in reply, shall be deemed to be controverted by
the adverse party, as upon a direct denial or avoidance, as
the case may require. Allegations of value, or of amount
of damage, shall not be considererl as true, by failure to
eontrovert them.

SEC. 138. A material allegation in a pleading is one
essential to the claim or defense, which could not be stricken
from the pleading without leaving it insufiicient.

SEC. 139. Neither presumptions of law, nor matters of
which judical notice is taken, need be stated in the pleading.

SEC. 140. When a tender of money is alleged in any

pleading, it shall not be necessary to deposit the money in‘

court when the pleading is filed, but it shall. be sufiicient if
the money is deposited in court at the trial, or when ordered
by the court. .

SEC. 141. If an original pleading be lost or withheld
by any person, the court may allow a copy thereof to be

substituted.
lllistakes in Pleading: and Amendments.

SEC. 142. No variance between the allegations, in a
pleading, and the proof, is to- be deemed material, unless it
have actually misled the adverse party, to his prejudice, in

maintaining his action or defense upon the merits. Whenever it is alleged that a party has been so misled, that fact
must be so proved to the satisfaction of the court, and it
must also be shown in what respect he has been misled,
and thereupon the court may order the pleading to be
amended, upon such terms as may be just.

SEC. 143. When the variance is not material, as provided in the preceding section, the court may direct the fact
to be found, according to the evidence, and may order an
immediate amendment without cost. *

SEC. 141. When, however, the allegation of the claim
or defense, to which the proof is directed, is improved, not
in some particular or particulars only, but in its general
scope and meaning, it is hot to be deemed a case of variance
within the last two sections, but a failure of proof.

SEC. 145. The plaintiff may amend his petition without
leave, at any time before the answer is filed, without prejudice to the proceedings; but notice of such amendment shall
be’ served upon the defendant or his attorney, and the
defendant shall have the same time to answer or °demur
thereto as to the original petition.

Sec. 146. At any time within ten days after the
demurreris filed, the adverse party may amend, of course, on
payment of costs since filing the defective pleading. Notice
of the tiling of an amended pleading shall be forthwith
served upon the other party or his attorney, who shall have
the same time thereafter to answer or reply thereto, as to an
original pleading.

SEC. 147. Upon a demurrer being over-ruled, the
party who demurrcd may answer or reply, if the court be
satisfied that he has a meritorious claim or defense, and did
not demur for delay. '

SEC. 148. The court may, before or after judgment, in
furtherance of justice, and on such terms as may be proper,
amend any pleading, process or proceeding by adding or
striking out the name of any party, or correcting a mistake
in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect. or
by inserting other allegations material to the case, or

conform the pleading or proceeding to the facts proved,
when such amendment does not change substantially the
claim or defense; and when any proceeding fails to conform,
in any respect, to the provisions of this code, the court may
permit the same to be made conformable thereto by
amendment.

SEC. 149. The court, in every stage of action, must
disregard any error or defect in the pleadings or proceedings
which does not eifect the substantial rights of the adverse
party; and no judgment shall be reversed or effected by
reason of such error or defect.

SEC. 150. If the demurrer be sustained, the adverse
party may amend, if the defect can be remedied by way of
amendment, with or without costs, as the court, in its discretion, shall direct.

SEC. 151. When either party shall amend any pleading
or proceeding, and the court shall be satisfied, by atlidavit or
otherwise, that the adverse party could not be ready for
trial in consequence thereof, a continuance may be granted
to some day in term, or to another term of the court.

SEC. 152. When the plaintiff shall be ignorant of the
name of a defendant, such defendant may be designated, in
any pleading or proceeding, by any name or description ;
and when his true name is discovered, the pleading may be
amended accordingly. The plaintiff in such case must state
in the verification of his petition that he could not ascertain
the true name; and the summons must contain the words
“ real name unknown, ” and a copy thereof must be served
personally upon the defendant.

SEC. 153. Either party may be allowed on notice, and
on such terms, as to costs, the court may prescribe, to
file a supplemental petition, answer or reply, alleging facts
material to the case, occurring after the former petition,
answer or reply.

SEC. 154. Whenever two or more actions are pending
in the same court, which might have been joined, the defendant may, on motion and notice to the adverse party, require
him to show cause why the same shall not be consolidated,

and if no cause be shown, the said several actions shall be
consolidated. '

SEC. 155. The order for consolidation may be made by
the court, or by a judge thereof, in vacation. 4

TITLE VIII.

Provisional Rem.edz'cs—Arrest and Bail.

SEC. 156. A defendant in a civil action can be arrested,
before and after judgment, in the manner prescribed by this i
code, and not otherwise; but this provision does not apply
to proceedings for contempt; nor does it apply to actions or
judgments prosecuted in the name of the territory of
Wyoming, to recover fines or penalties for crimes, misdemeanors er offenses.

SEC. 157. An order for the arrest of the defendant
shall be made by the judge of the court in which the action
is brought, or by the probate judge of the county where the
action is brought, when there is filed in the clerk's oflice an
aflidavit of the plaintiff, his authorized agent or attorney,
stating the nature of the plaintiffs claim; that it is just, and
the amount thereof, as nearly as may be, and establishing
one or more of the following particulars :

First, That the defendant has removed or begun to
remove any of his property out of the jurisdiction of the
court, with intent to defraud his creditors.

Second, That he has begun to convert his property, or
a part thereof, into money, for the purpose of placing it
beyond the reach of his creditors.

T bird, That he has property, or rights of action, which
he fraudulently conceals.

Fourth, That he has assigned, removed or disposed of,
or has begun to dispose of his property, or 9. part thereof,
with intent to defraud his creditors.

Fzft/'2, That he fraudulently contracted the debt or
incurred the obligation for which suit is about to be or has
been brought.

Sizstlz, In an action to recover the possession of personal
property unjustly detained; that the property or any part

thereof, has been concealed, removed or disposed of, so that
it cannot be found or taken by the sheri&'. .
Seventh, The aliidavit shall also contain a statement of
the facts claimed to justify the belief in the existence of one or
more of the above particulars. Provided however, That no
defendant in an action shall be arrested in an action for the
recovery of money only, unless the action be founded on a

contract express or implied.
SEC. 158. The order of arrest shall not be issued by

the judge until there has been executed, by one or more
sufiicient sureties of the plaintiff, a written undertaking to
the effect that the plaintiff shall pay to the defendant all
damages which he may sustain by reason of the arrest, if the
order be wrongfully obtained, not exceeding double the
amount of plaintiff s claim stated in the affidavit.

SEC. 159. The order may be made to accompany the

summons, or at any time afterwards, before judgment.

SEC. 160. The order of arrest shall be addressed and
delivered with a copy of the aflidavit to the sherid. The
order shall state the names of the parties, the court in which
the action is brought, and the amount of the plaintiff's claim
specified in the allidavit, and shall require the sheriff to
arrest the defendant, and hold him to bail in double the
sum stated in the atlidavit, which amount of bail in no case
shall be less than two hundred and fifty dollars, and to make
return of the order on a day to be named therein, with the
undertaking of the bail, if any be given.

SEC. 161. The return day of the order of arrest, when
issued at the commencement of the suit, shall be the same as
that of the summons; when issued afterwards, it shall be
fifteen days after it is issued.

SEC. 162. The sheriff shall execute the order by arresting the defendant, and delivering to him a copy thereof and
of the affidavit. If the defendant cannot be found before the
return day, the plaintif shall be entitled to further orders.
without another affidavit or undertaking until the defendant
is arrested; but orders of arrest shall not be issued to any
other than the county in which the action is brought.

Site. 163. The defendant when arrested shall be committed by the sheri&' to the jail of the county, and kept in
custody until discharged by law.

SEC. 164. The defendant may, before or after giving
bail, deposit in the hands of the sheriff, or in court, the
amount of money mentioned in the order. of arrest, whereupon he shall be discharged, or his bail, if any be given,
shall be released.

SEC. 165. The sheriff shall pay into court the money
received by him in lieu of bail.’ If received in vacation, he
shall pay it on the first day of the next term; if received
during a term, he shall pay it immediately.

SEC. 166. The court shall make proper orders for the
safe keeping of money deposited in lieu of bail. It may
direct the sheriff to keep the money, and after final

judgment in the action shall order it to be paid to the party
entitled thereto, according to the result.

SEC. 167. Money so deposited with the sheriff, in lieu

of bail, or directed by the court to be kept by him, shall be

held upon his oiiicial responsibility ; and he and his sureties
shall be liable and may he proceeded against for any default
in relation thereto, as in other cases of delinquency.

SEC. 168. Bail may be given by the defendant on his
arrest or at any time afterwards, before judgment. It shall
be done by causing one or more suilicient sureties to execute
a written undertaking to the plaintiff, in the presence of the
sheriff, to the effect that, ifjudgment shall be rendered in the
action against the defendant, he will render himself amenable
to the process of the court thereon. The undertaking when
accepted shall be returned to the clerk’s otlice and the
defendant discharged.

SEC. 169. The plaintiff or his attorney, may object to
the bail for insuliiciency, at any time within five days after
notice of the undertaking having been given. Within such
time, he shall serve upon the sheriff a written notice that he
does not accept the bail, or he shall be deemed to have
accepted it, and the sheri8' shall be exonerated from liability.

When the undertaking is given after return of arrest, the
plaintiff shall have notice thereof.

Sec. 170. On the receipt of such notice, the she:-id’ or
defendant may, within ten days thereafter, give to the plaintiff or his attorney, notice in writing of the justification of
the same or other bail, before a judge or clerk of the court
in which the action is brought, a probate judge, or justice of
the peace, at a specified time and place; the time to be not’
less than five, nor more than ten days thereafter. In case
other bail be given there must be a new undertaking.

SEC. 171. For the purpose of justification, each of the
bail must attend before the pI‘oper-oilicer, at the time and
place mentioned, and may be examined on oath or affirmation touching his suihciency, in such manner as the ofiicer
may think proper.

SEC. 172. If the oflicer find the bail suilicient he shall
indorse his allowance on the undertaking and cause the
same to be filed with the clerk, and the sheriff shall
thereupon be dischargcxl from liability.

SEC. 173. After being arrested, if the defendant escapes
or be rescued, or bail be not taken, or be adjudged insufficient, or deposit be not made, the sheriff shall be liable as
bail. But he may discharge himself from liability by
putting in suliicient bail at any time before judgment.

SEC. 174. The return of “ not found ” upon an
execution against the body of the defendant shall be
necessary to fix the liability of the sherilf as bail, which
liability shall be the amount of the judgment, interest and
costs. This liability shall be enforced only in a separate
action against him, or against him and his sureties on his
0i1‘li'.‘i;tl bond, as in other cases of delinquency.

Site. 175. The bail adjudged insutiicient, shall be liable
to the sheriff for the damages he may sustain by reason of
S12-‘Til iasiuilicierlcy.

SFC. 176. The liability of the bail shall be fixed in the
mnnr-_er provided in section one hundred and seventy-four,
for ii.-zing the liability of the sheriff as bail, and the bail
can he proceeded against in an action only.

SEC. 177. A surrender of the defendant to the sheriff ‘
of the county in which he was arrested, with a delivery of a ‘
certified copy of the undertaking of the bail, whether such
surrender be made by the defendant himself, or by his bail,
shall discharge the bail. Such surrender may be made at
any time before the return day of the summons in an action
against the bail. The sherilf shall give to the bail a written
acknowledgment of the surrender, and hold the defendant
in his custody upon said copy of the undertaking of bail as
upon an order of the arrest. On the production of the
sheriff's acknowledgment of the surrender to the clerk of the
court, an exoneration of the bail shall be entered on his
undertaking.

SEC. 178. For the purpose of surrendering the defendant, the bail, at any time or place, before he is finally
charged, may himself arrest him, or by a written authority
indorsed on a certified copy of the undertaking, may
empower any person of suitable age and discretion to do so.

SEC. 179. The bail will be exonerated by the death of
the defendant, or his imprisonment in a state prison, or by
his legal discharge from the obligation to render himself
amenable to the process of the court, or by his surrender to
the sheriff of the county in which he was arrested in execution thereof within the time fixed in section one hundred and
seventy—seven, or within such further time as the court, in
which the action is pending may allow.

SEC. 180. If money be deposited by the defendant on
his discharge, bail may be given and justified upon notice
as prescribed in section one hundred and seventy, at any
time before judgment; and thereupon the court in, or judge
thereof in which the action is brought, on being satisfied
that the bail has been given and adjudged suiiicient, shall
direct the money deposited. refunded to the defendant, and
it must be refunded accordingly.

SEC. 181. If at any time before or after judgment
against the bail, proceedings in error are commenced, on the
judgment against the principal, in the suit in which their
undertaking was taken, the court or judge thereof may, on

motion, stay proceedings against such bail, for a reasonable
time, on their paying all costs that have accrued against
them; and if, on such proceedings, the judgment against
the principal shall be reversed, and the principal discharged
from said suit, the bail shall be discharged from the undertaking.

SE20. 182. A defendant arrested may, at any time
before the justification of the bail, apply on motion, to the
court in which the suit is brought, if in session, and in
vacation, to a judge thereof, to vacate the order of arrest.
or to reduce the amount of the bail. Reasonable notice of
such motion must be given to the plaintiif.

SEC. 183. If the motion be made upon ailidavits on the
part of the defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintiff may
oppose the same, by affidavits or other evidence, in addition
to that on which the order of arrest was made.

SEC. 184. Any person causing another to be committed
to jail under the provisions of this chapter, shall be liable,
in the first instance, for the jail fees, and shall, if required
by the jailer, pay such fees weekly in advance; and such
fees so paid shall be a part of the costs of the case.

TITLE IX.
Replevin of Property.

Sec. 185. The plaintiff in an action to recover the
possession of specific personal property, may, at the commencement of the suit, or at any time before answer, claim
the immediate delivery of such property, as provided in
this title.

SEC. 186. An order for the delivery of property to the
plaintif shall be made by the clerk of the court in which
the action is brought, when there is filed in his office an
affidavit of the plaintiff, his agent or attorney, showing,——

First, A description of the property claimed.

Second, That the plaintiff is the owner of the property
or has a special ownership or interest therein, stating the
facts in relation thereto, and that he is entitled to the
immediate possession of the property.

Tlzird, That the property is wrongfully detained by the
defendant. '

Fourth, The value of the property.

Fifth, That it was not taken in execution on. any order
or judgment against said plaintiff. or for the payment of
any tax, fine or amercement assessed against him, or by
virtue of an order of delivery issued under this title or any
other mesne or final process issued against the plaintiff; or if
taken on an execution or order of attachment, that it is by
statute exempt from such levy or attachment.

SEC. 187. The order for the delivery of the property

to the plaintid shall be addressed and delivered to the‘

sheriff. It shall state the names of the parties, the court in
which the action is brought, and command the sheriff to take
the property, describing it, and deliver it to the plaintiff,
and to make return of the order on a day to be named
therein.

SEC. 188. The return day for the order of delivery,
when issued at the commencement of the suit, shall be the
same as that of the summons; when issued afterwards, it
shall be twenty days after it issued.

SEC. 189. The sheritfshall execute the order by taking
the property therein mentioned. IIe shall also deliver a
copy of the order to the person charged with the unlawful
detention of the property, or his agent from whose possession
the property is taken, or if neither can be found by leaving
a copy of the order at the usual place of the abode of either,
with some person of suitable age and discretion;

Sec. 190. The sheriff or other odicer shall not deliver
to the plaintiff, his agent or attorney, the property so taken,
until there has been executed by one or more suflicient
sureties of the plaintiff, a written undertaking to the defendant, in at least double the value of the property taken, to
the effect that the plaintid’ shall duly prosecute the action
and pay all costs and damages which may be awarded against
him. The undertaking shall be returned with the order.

See. 191. For the purpose of fixing the amount of the
undertaking, the value of the property taken shall be ascertained by the oath of two or more responsible persons, whom
the sheriif or other oiiicer shall swear truly to assess the
value thereof.

SEC. 192. If the undertaking required by section one
hundred and ninety be not given within forty-eight hours
from the taking of the property under said order, the sheriE
or other officer shall return the property to the defendant ;
and if the sheriff or other officer deliver any property so
taken to the plaintiff, his agent or attorn“y, or keep the
same from the defendant, without taking such security,
within the time aforesaid, or if he take insuliieient security,
he shall be liable to the defendant in damages.

SEC. 193. The defendant may, within forty-eight hours
from the time the undertaking referred to in the preceding
section is given by the plaintiff, give notice to the sheriff that
he excepts to the snilieiency of the sureties. If he fail to
do so, he must be deemed to have waived all objections to

‘them. When the defendant excepts, the surcties must justify upon notice, as bail on arrest. The sheriff or other

officer shall be PCS!)-')ilSil)le for the sufficiency of the surcties,
until the objection to them is waived as above provided, or
until they justify. The property shall be delivered to the

‘plaintiff, when the undertaking required by section one

hundred and ninety has been given.

SEC. 194. If the property has been delivered to the
plaintiff, and judgment be rendered against him on demurrer,
or if he otherwise fail to prosecute his action to final
judgment, the court shall, on application of the defendant or
his attorney, impanel a jury to inquire into the right of
property and right of possession of the defendant to the
property taken. If the jury shall be satisiied that said
property was the property of the defendant at the commencement of the action, or if they shall find that the
defendant was entitled to the possession only of the same
at such time, then, and ineither case, they shall assess such
damages for the defendant as right and proper ; for which,
with costs of suit ‘the court shall render judgment for the
defendant.

Size. 195. In all ‘cases “where the property has been
delivered to the plaintiff. when the jury shall find upon issue
joined, for the defendant, they shall also find whether the

‘ defendant has the right of property or the right of possession

only, at the commencement of the suit, and if they find
either in his favor, they shall assess such damages as they
think right and proper for the defendant ; for which, with costs
of suit, the court shall render judgment for the defendant.
SEC. 196. In all cases when the property has been
delivered to the plaintiff. where the jury shall find for the‘
plaintiff, on an issue joined, or on inquiry of damages upon
a judgment by the default, they shall assess adequate
damages to the plaintiff for the illegal detention of the

property; for Which, with costs of suit, the court shall‘
render judgment for defendant.

SEC. 197. When the property claimed has not been
taken, or has been returned to the defendant by the sheriff‘
for want of the undertaking required by section one hundred
and ninety, "the action may proceed as one for damages only,
and the plaintiff shall be entitled to such damages as are
right and proper; but if the property be returned for want
of the undertaking required by section one hundred and
ninety, the plaintiff shall pay all costs made by taking the
same.

SEC. 198. An order may be directed to any other
county than the one in which the action is brought, for the
delivery of the property claimed. Several orders may be
issued at the same time, or successively, at the option of the
plaintiff; but only one of them shall be taxed in the costs,
unless otherwise ordered by the court.

SEC. 199. The _sheri£f or other oliicer in the execution
of the order of delivery, may break open any building or
enclosure in which the property claimed, or any part thereof
is concealed; but not unless he has been refused an entrance
into said building or enclosure and the delivery of the
property, after having demanded the same.

SEC. 200. No suit shall be instituted on the undertaking
given under section one hundred and ininety, before an

execution issued on a judgment in favor of the defendant in
the action shall have been returned, that suilicient property
whereon to levy and make the amount of such judgment
cannot be found in the county.

SEC. 201. Any order for the delivery of property issued
under section one hundred and eighty-six, without the
affidavit required thereby, shall be set aside at the cost of
the clerk issuing the same, and such clerk, as well as the
plaintid, shall also be liable in damages to the party
injured.

TITLE X.
Attaclzment —Article 1.

SEC. ‘.202. The plaintiff in a civil action for the recovery
of money may, at or after the commencement thereof, have
an attachment against the property of the defendant, and
upon the grounds herein stated:

First, When the defendant or one of the defendants, in
a foreign corporation, or a non-resident of this territory ; or, .

Second, Has absconded with the intent to defraud his
creditors ; or,

Tlzird, ‘Has left the county of his residence to avoid the
service of a summons; or, , '

Fourth, So conceals himself that a summons cannot be
served upon him; or, '

Fvft/z, Is about to remove his property, or a part thereof,
out of the jurisdiction of the court, with the intent to
defraud his creditors; or,

Sz':z:tlo., Is about to convert his property, or a part thereof
into money, for the purpose of placing it beyond the reach
of his creditors; or, _ _

Seventh, Has property, or rights in action, which he
conceals; or,

Eighth, Has assigned, removed or disposed of, or it
about to dispose of, this property, or a part thereof, with the
intent to defraud his creditors, or,

Ninth, Fraudulently contracted the debt or incurred the
obligation for which suit is about to be or has been brought.

Site. 203. An order of attachment shall be made by .(
the clerk of the court in which the action is brought, in any ''
case mentioned in the preceding section, when there is filed
in his oilice an ailidavit of the plaintid} his agent or attorney, stating,First, The nature of ' the plaintiff's claim.

Secmuf, That it is just.

Third, The amount which the aihant believes the plaintif ought to. recover.

Ezurtk, The existence, of some one of the grounds for
an attachment enumerated in the preceding section, orthat
the afliant has good reason to believe and does believe that
some one of said grounds, (stating what one,.) exists.

SEC. 204. Before issuing the writ, the clerk shall 6
require a written undertaking on the part of the plaintiff in
a sum not less than two hundred dollars, and in case the
plaintiff’ s claim exceeds two hundred dollars, not exceeding
double the amount claimed by the plaintiff, with sumcient
sureties to the efect that if the defendant recover judgement,
the plaintif will pay all costs that may be awarded to the
defendant, and all damages which he may: sustain by reason
of the attachment, not exceeding the- sum specified. in the
undertaking.

SEC. 205. The writ shall, be directed tothe sheriff of
any county in which property of such» defendant may be,
and require him to attach and safely keepsall the property
of such defendant within his county, not exempt from
execution, or so much thereof as may. be sufficient to satisfy
the plaintiff's demand, the amount of which shall be stated
in conformity with the petition,,unless. the defendant give
him security by the undertaking, of at least two sufficient
sureties, in an amount sufficient to satisfy such demands,
besides cost, in which» case to. take such undertaking.
Several writs shall issue» at the same time to the sheriffs of
diferent cc unties, if reqnested by the plaintiff; Provided,
That the defendant shall: not be charged with the costs of
more than one wirit,.nnless it appear to the satisfaction of
the court that it was necessary to issue the several writs..

Ssc. 206. The right or shares which the defendant may
have in the stock of any corporation or company, together
with the interest and profits therein, and all debts due such
defendant, and all other of his property in this territory not
exempt from execution, may be attached, and if judgment
be recovered, be sold to satisfy the judgment and execution.

Size. 207. The sheriff to whom the writ is directed and
delivered, shall execute the same without delay, and if the
undertaking mentioned in section two hundred and live he
not given, as follows: Real property shall be attached by
leaving a copy of the writ with the occupant thereof; or if
there be no occupant, by posting a copy in a conspicuous
place thereon, and filing a copy, together with a description
of the property attached, with the register of deeds of the
county where such property is situate; and from and after
the filing of the same, such levy shall take e&'ect, as to
creditors and bona jide purchasers without notice, and not
before. Personal property capable of manual delivery shall
be attached by taking it into custody. Stock or shares, or
interest in stock or shares, of any corporation or company,
shall be attached by leaving with the president or other head
of the same, or the secretary, cashier, or agent thereof, a copy
of the writ, and a notice stating the stock .or interest of the
defendant is attached in pursusance of such writ. Debts
and credits and other personal property,’ not capable of
manual delivery, shall be attached by leaving with the person
owing such debts, or having in his possession or under his
control, such credits or other personal property, a copy of
the writ, and a notice that the debts owing by him to the
defendant, or the credits and other personal property in his
possession or under his control belonging to the defendant,
are attached in pursuance of such writ.

SEC. 208. Upon receiving information in writing from
the plaintiif, his agent or attorney, that any person has in
his possession or under his control, any credits, or other
personal property belonging to the defendant, or is owing
any debt to the defendant, the sherif shall serve upon such
person a copy of the writ, and a notice that such credits, or

other property or debts as the case may be, are attached in
pursuance of such writ.

SEC. 209. All persons having in their possession, or
under their control, ‘any credits or other personal property, 1
‘belonging to the defendant, or owing any debts to the defendant at the time of service upon them of a copy of the writ
and notice, as provided in the two _preceding sections, shall
be, unless such property is delivered up or transferred, or
‘such debts be paid to the sheriff, liable to the plaintiff for
the amount of such credits, property or debts, until the
attachment be discharged or any judgment recovered by him
be satisfied.

SEC. 210. Any person owing debts due the defendant,‘
or having in his possession or under his control, any credits T
or other personal property belonging to the defendant, may
be required to attend before the court or judge, or a referee
appointed by the court or judge, and be examined on oath
respecting the same. The defendant may also be required
to attend for the purpose of giving information respecting
his property, and may be examined on oath. The court, or
jndge, may, after such examination, order personal property
capable of manual delivery to be delivered to the sheriR' on
such terms as may be just, having reference to any liens
thereon or claims against the same, and a memorandum to be
given of all other personal property, containing the amount
and description thereof.

SEC. 211. The sheriff shall make a full inventory of
the property attached, and return the same with the writ.
To enable him to make such returns as to debts and credits
attached, he shall request at the time of service the party
owing the debt or having the credit, to give him a memorandum stating the amount and description of each; and if such
memorandum be refused, he shall return the fact of refusal
with the writ. The party refusing to give the memorandum
may be. required to pay the costs of any proceeding, taken
for the purpose of obtaining information respecting the
amount and description of such debt or credit.

S20. 212. If any of the property attached be perishable, the sheriff shall sell the same in the manner in which
said property is sold on execution. The proceeds and other
property attached by him shall be retained by him, to answer
any judgment that may be recovered in the action, unless
sooner subject to execution upon another judgment recovered
previous to the issuing of the attachment. Debts and credits
attached may be collected by him, if the same can be done
without suit. The sheriffs receipt shall be a sufiicient
discharge for the amount paid.

SEC. 213. If judgment be recovered by the plaintif,
the sheriff shall satisfy the same out of the property attached
by him, which has not been delivered to the defendant, or a
claimant as hereinafter provided, or subject to execution on
another judgment recovered previous to the issuing of the
attachment, if it be suilicient for that purpose :

First, By paying to the plaintid‘ the proceeds of sales
of perishable property sold by him, or of any debts or
credits collected by him, or so much as shall be necessary to
satisfy the judgment.

Second, If any balance remain due, and an execution
shall have been issued on the judgment, he shall sell under
the execution, so much of the property real or personal, as
may be necessary to satisfy the balance, if enough for that
purpose remain in his hands. Notice of the sales shall be
given, and the sales conducted as in other cases of sales on
execution.

SEC. 214. If, after selling all the property attached
by him remaining in his hands, and applying the
proceeds, together with the proceeds of any debts or credits
collected by him, deducting the fees, to the payment of the
judgment, any balance shall remain due, the sheriff shall
proceed to collect such balance as upon an execution in other
cases. Whenever the judgment shall have been paid, the
sherif, upon reasonable demands, shall deliver over to the
defendant the attached property remaining in his hands, and
any proceeds of the property attached unapplied on the
judgment.

‘ Size. 215. If the execution be returned unsatisfied, in

whole or in part, the plainti&' may prosecute any undertaking
given pursuant to section two hundred and five or section‘
two hundred and eighteen, or he may proceed as in other
cases upon the return of an execution. '

Sac. 216. If the defendant recover judgment against
the plaintiff, any undertaking received in the action, all the
proceeds of the sales and money collected by the sheriff, and
all the property attached remaining in the sherifs hands,
shall be delivered to the defendant or his agent; the order
of attachment shall be discharged and the property released
therefrom.

SEC. 217. Whenever the defendant shall have appeared
in the action, he may apply, upon reasonable notice to the
plaintiff, to the court in which the action is pending, or to
the judge thereof, for an order to discharge the attachment
wholly or in part, upon the execution and filing of the undertaking mentioned in the next section. Such order may be
granted directing‘ the release from the operation of the
attachment, upon the filing of such undertaking, and the
justification of the sureties thereon, if required by the
plaintif, of all or any part of the property, money, debts
or credits attached, as the case may be, all the proceeds of
sales an neys collected by the sherif, and all the property
attacheddunaining in his hands, so released, shall be paid
or delivered to the defendant upon the filing of such undertaking and making such justification, if required by the
plaintif.

SEC. 218. On granting such order, the court or. the
judge shall require an undertaking in behalf of the defend-*
ant, with at least two sureties, residents and freeholders or
householders in the county, which shall be filed, to the effect,
in case the value of the property or the amount of money,
debts or credits sought to be released shall be equal or
exceed the amount claimed by the plaintif in the complaint,
that the defendant will pay to the plaintid the amount of
the judgment which may be recovered in favor of the plaintilf
in the action, not exceeding the sum specified in the undertaking, which shall be at least double the amount so claimed

by the plaintih‘, or to the ed'ect, in case the value of the
property or the amount of money, debts or credit, sought to
be released shall be less than the amount so claimed by the
plaintiE, that the defendant will pay the amount of such
judgment, to the extent of the value of the property, or
amount of money or debts, or credits sought to be released,
not exceeding the sum specified in the undertaking, which
shall be at least double the value of the property, money,
debts or credits. The value of the property sought to be
released, if disputed, shall be determined by the court or
judge thereof, upon proof, or by a sworn appraiser or sworn
appraisers, not exceeding three, to be appointed by the court
or the judge for that purpose. ‘Before filing the undertaking, the defendant shall serve a copy thereof upon the
plaintiff, and if the plaintiff require a justification by the
sureties, he shall give notice thereof to the defendant within
two days; or at the time of giving notice of motion for an
order to discharge the attachment, the defendant may, in his
notice, name the sureties, and if the plaintiff require them
to justify, he shall give notice thereof at the hearing of the
motion. If required, the sureties shall justify before the
court in which the suit is pending, or the judge thereof.

after reasonable notice.

SEC. 219. The defendant may also, befoie time of
answering expires, apply on motion, upon reasona le notice
to. the plaintiff, to the court in which the action is brought,
or to the judge thereof, for the discharge of the attachment,
on the ground that the writ was improperly issued, and may
traverse, by afhdavit the allegations in the adidavit upon
which the attachment issued. '

SEC. 220. If the motion be made upon ailidavits on the
part of the defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintiff may
oppose the same by affidavits or other evidence, in addition
to those on which the writ of attachment was issued.

SEC. 221. If, upon such application, it shall satisfactorily appear that the writ of attachment was improperly
issued, it shall be discharged.

SEC. 223. The sheriff shall return the writ of attachment, with the summons, if issued, at the same time;
otherwise, within twenty days after its receipt, with a t
certificate of his proceedings indorsed thereon or attached
thereto.

SEC. 224. The foregoing provisions of this title shall I
not apply to any action commenced before the passage of
this act, but the attachment law, as existing in this territory

before the passage of this act, may be applied in all such
actions.

Deposit in Court.

SEC. 225. Where it is admitted, by the pleading or
examination of a party, that he has in his possession, or'
under his control, any money or other thing capable of
delivery, which, being the subject of litigation, is held by
him as trustee for another party, or which belongs or is due
to another party, the court may order the same upon motion,
to be deposited in court, or delivered to such party, upon
such conditions as may be just, subject to the further direction
of the court.

SEC. 226. A receiver may be appointed by the court
in which the action is pending, or by a judge thereof;

First, Before judgment, provisionally, on the application
of either party, where he establishes a prima facie right to
the property, or an interest in the property, which is the
subject of the action,‘ and which is in possession of an
adverse party, and the property or its rentsand profits are
in danger of being lost or materially injured or impaired.

Second, After judgment, to dispose of the property
according to the judgment, or to preserve it during the
pendency of an appeal; and

Third, In such other cases as are in accordance with the
practice of courts of equity jurisdiction.

ARTICLE II.
Attachments in certain Actions Before Due.

Sec. 227. A creditor may bring an action on a claim
before it is due, and have an attachment against the property
of the debtor in the following cases:

First, Where a debtor has sold, conveyed, or otherwise
disposed of his property, with the fraudulent intent to cheat

or defraud his creditors, or to hinder or delay them in the
collection of their debts.

Second, Where he is about to make such sale, conveyance or disposition of his property, with such fraudulent
intent.

Third, When he is about to remove his property or a
amterial part thereof, with the intent, (or to the effect) of
cheating or defrauding his creditors, or of hindering and
delaying them in the collection of their debts.

SEC. 228. The attachment authorized by the last
section, may be granted by the court in which the action is
brought, or by a judge thereof, or by the probate judge of
the county ; but before such action shall be brought, or such
attachment shall be granted, the plaintilf, his agent or
attorney, shall make an oath, in writing, showing the nature
and amount of plaintiff ’s claim, that it is just, when the
same shall become due, and the existence of some one of the

grounds for attachment enumerated in the preceding
section.

Site. 229. If the court or judge refuse to grant an
order of attachment, the action shall be dismissed, but
without prejudice to a future action; and in all such actions
application for an attachment must be made.

3 SEC. 230. The order of the court or judge granting
the attachment shall specify the amount for which it is
allowed, not exceeding a sum sufficient to satisfy the
,plaintiE’s claim, and the probable cost of the action.

SEC. 231. The order of attachment as granted by the
court or judge, shall not be issued by the clerk until there
has been executed in his ohice, such undertaking on the part
of the plaintid‘ as is directed by section two hundred
and four.

SEC. 232. The plaintiff in such action shall not have
judgment on his claim before it becomes due, and the
proceedings on attachment may be conducted without delay.

Sac. 283. The proceedings in the first article of this

title, subsequent to section two hundred and four, shall, so
far as they are applicable, regulate the attachments authorized by this article.

Gamishment in Certain Cases.

SEC. 234. In all cases where an execution issued upon
any judgment of a court of record. or of a justice of the
peace, shall be returned by the odicer in whose hands the
same was placed for service, unsatisfied for want of suflicient
property whereof to levy and collect the same, and the
judgment creditor in such execution, his agent or attorney,
shall file an affidavit in the ofiice of the clerk of the court,
or justice of the peace, from which said execution issued,
that he has good reason to and does believe that any person
or corporation, (naming them), have property and are
indebted to the judgment debtor, the said clerk or justice of
the peace, shall issue a summons, as in other cases, requiring
such person or corporation to appear in court and answer
such interrogatories as shall be propounded to him, it or
them, touching the goods, chattels, rights and credit of said
judgment debtor in his, its or their possession or control.

SEC. 235. The summonsshall be made returnable, and
the said persons or corporations shall be required to appear.
as in ordinary cases of summons, and thereafter, like proceedings shall be had therein, and said garnishees shall be
held liable, in all respects, as in cases of garnishees before
judgment.

81:0. 286. The summons shall be served as a summons
in an original action is served ; the said persons or corporations so ‘summoned shall be liable to the judgment creditor
in said execution, for all property, moneys and credits in his,
its or their hands, or due from him, it or them, to the judgment debtor in said execution, at the time of, and which
may come into his, its or their hands or control after the
service of said summons.

S30. 237. No proceedings against such garnishee or
garnishees shall be quashed, or such garnishee or garnishees
discharged, by reason of any informality or irregularity

merely, of the adidavit or summons provided for in this title.

SEC. 238. In cases where the garnishee, in answering
such interrogatories, shall disclose that he as property in his
possession or under his control, belonging to the_ defendant
or defendants in execution, the court shall order the same
to be taken and sold by the odicers upon execution as in
other cases.

Size. 239. In cases where the garnishee, in answering
such interrogatories, shall disclose that he is indebted to the
defendant in execution, the court shall order the garnishee
to pay over the amount found to be due from the said garnishee to the defendant in execution, which amount shall be
collected by execution, as in other cases, as near as may be,
and such amount, when paid or collected, shall be credited
on the original judgment, and the garnishee shall be credited
for the amount so paid or collected. "

SEC. 240. Whenever the defendant in an attachment
suit has given an undertaking for the release of property
attached, as provided in this title, the plaintid‘ may, by
giving the surety or sureties on such undertaking at least
ten days notice, apply to the court for- judgment against
such surety or sureties, and unless such surety or sureties
show good and lawful cause why judgment should not be

rendered against him or them, the court shall cause to be.

entered such judgment as shall have been rendered
against the original defendant in the action, with such
further costs as shall have accrued.

SEC. _241. Whenever judgmentshall have been rendered
against any surety or sureties, as provided in the above
section, execution shall issue commanding the odicer to
make the amount out of the property of the original
defendant, and in failure so to do for want of sufiicient
property, then to make said amount out ,of the property of
the surety or sureties, naming him or them.

SEC. 242. When judgment is rendered against the
surety or sureties as above provided, the plaintid‘ shall pay
all costs of obtaining the judgment against such surety or
sureties, if the amount of the first judgment be made out

of the property of the original defendant, if not so made,
then such costs to be collected as the remainder of the
judgment. A

SEC. 243. Whenever such judgment, or any portion
thereof, shall be collected out of the property of such surety
or sureties, the judgment against the original defendant, or
so much thereof as shall be necessary, shall stand to the use

and benefit of such surety or sureties until his or their claim
shall have been satisfied.

TITLE XI.

Injunctz'on..

SEC. 244. The injunction provided by this code is at
command to refrain from a particular act. It may be the
final judgment in an action, or may be allowed as a provisional remedy, and when so allowed, it shall be by order.
The writ of injunction is abolished.

SEC. 245. When it appears, by the petition, that the
plaintiff is entitled to the relief demanded, and such relief,
or any part thereof, consists in restraining the commission or
continuance of some act, the commission. or continuance of
which, during the litigation, would produce great or irrepar-.
able injury to the plaintiff; or when, during the litigation,
it appears that the defendant is doing, or threatens. or is
about to do, or is procuring or suffering to be done, some act
in violation of the plaintiii"s rights respecting the subject of
action, and tending to render the judgment ineffectual, a
temporary injunction may be granted to restrain such act.
It may also be granted in any case where’ it is specially
authorized by statute.

SEC. 246. The injunction may be granted at the time
of commencing the action or at any time afterwards, before
judgment by the district court or the judge thereof, or, in
his absence from the county, by the probate judge, upon its
appearing satisfactorily to the court or judge, by the

aflidavit of the plaintiff or his agent, that the plaintiff is
entitled thereto.

SEC. 247. If the court or judge deem it proper that.

the defendat or any party to the suit, should be heard before
granting the injunction, it may direct a reasonable notice to
be given to such party to attend for such purpose, at a
specified time and place, and may, in the mean time,
restrain such party.

SEC. 248. An injunction shall not be granted against a
party who has answered, unless upon notice, but such party
may be restrained until the decision of the application for an
injunction.

SEC. 249. No injunction, unless otherwise provided by
special statute, shall operate until the party obtaining the
same shall give an undertaking, executed by one or more
sudicient sureties, to be approved by the clerk of the court
or judge granting such injunction, in an amount to be fixed
by the court or judge allowing the same, to secure to the
party injured the damages he may sustain, if it be iinally
decided that the injunction ought not to have been granted.

SEC. 250. The order of injunction shall be addressed to
the party enjoined, shall state the injunction and shall be
issued by the clerk. When the injunction is allowed at the
commencement of the action, the clerk shall indorse upon
the summons, “injunction allowed, ” and it shall not be

_'necessary to issue the order of injunction, nor shall it be

necessary to issue the same, where notice of the application
therefor has been given to the party enjoined. The service
of the summons so indorsed, or the notice of an application"
for an injunction, shall be notice of its allowance.

SEC. 251. That when the injunction is allowed during
the litigation, and without notice of the application therefor,
the order of injunction shall be issued, and the sherid‘ shall
forthwith serve the same upon each party enjoined, in the
manner prescribed for serving a summons, and make return
thereof without delay.

Sac. 252. An injunction binds the party from the time
he has notice thereof, and the undertaking required by the
applicant therefor is executed.

SEC. 253. No injunction shall be granted by a judge

after a motion therefor has" been overruled on the merits of
the application by his court, and where it has been refused by
the court in which the action is brought, or a judge thereof,
it shall not be granted to the same applicant, by a court of
inferior jurisdiction or any judge thereof.

SEC. 254. An injunction granted by a judge may be
enforced as the act of the court. Disobedience of any
injunction may be punished as a contempt by the court or
any judge who mi :6-ht have granted it in vacation. An
attachment may be issued by the court or judge, upon being
satislied, by aiiidavit, of the breach of the injunction,
against the party guilty of the same, and he may be required,
in the discretion of the court or judge, to pay a fine not
exceeding two hundred dollars, for the use of the county,
to make immediate restitution to the party injured, and give
further security to obey the injunction ; or in default
thereof, he may be committed to close custody, until he shall
fully comply with such requirements, or be otherwise legally:
discharged.

SEC. 256. That a party enjoined may, at any time
before judgment, upon reasonable notice to the party who
has obtained the injunction, move the court or judge for
additional security; and if it appear that the surety in the
undertaking has removed from the territory or is insufiicient,
the court or judge may vacate the injunction, unless, in a
reasonable time, suilicient security be given.

SEC. 257. On the hearing of an application for an
injunction, each party may read aflidavits. All aiiidavits
shall be filed. «

Sec. 258. If the injunction be granted without notice,
the defendant, at any time before the trial, may apply-, upon
notice to the court in which the action is brought, or any
judge thereof, to vacate or modify the same. The application
may be made upon the petition and adidavits upon which the
injunction is granted, or upon ailidavits on the part of the
party enjoined with or without answer. The order of the
judge, allowing, dissolving, or modifying an injunction, shall
be returned to the oilice of the clerk of the court in which

1

the action is brought, and recorded and obeyed, as if made
by the court.

SEC. 259. If application be made upon amdavits, on
the part of the defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintiff
may oppose the same, by afiidavits, or other evidence, in
addition to that on which the injunction was granted.

SEC. 260. A defendant may obtain an injunction upon
an answer in the nature of a counter claim. He shall
proceed in the manner prescribed in this title.

Receivers and other. Provisional Remedies;

SEC. 261. A receiver may be appointed by the supreme
court, the district court, or any judge of either, or in the
absence of said judges from the county, by the probate
judge:

First, In an action by a vendor to vacatea fraudulent
purchase of property, or by a creditor to subject any
property or fund to his claim, or between partners or others
jointly owning or interested in any property or fund. on the
application of the plaintid‘, or of any party, whose right to
or interest in the property or fund, or the proceeds thereof,
is probable, and where it is shown that the property or fund
is in danger of being lost, removed or materially injured.

Second, In an action by a mortgagee for the foreclosure
of his mortgage, and sale of the mortgaged property, where
it appears that the mortgaged property is in danger of being
lost, removed, or materially injured, or that the condition of
the mortgage has been performed, and the property is
probably insumcient to discharge the mortgage debt.

Third, After judgment, to carry the judgment into
eifect.

Fourth, After judgment, to dispose of the property
according to judgment, or to preserve it during the pendeucy
of an appeal, or when an execution has been returned
unsatisfied, and the judgment debtor refuses to apply the
property in satisfaction of the judgment.

Fifth, In the cases provided in this code, and by special
statutes, when a corporation has been dissolved, or in

insolvent, or in imminent danger of insolvency. or has
forfeited its corporate rights. ,

aS’:°2:th, In all other cases, where receivers have heretofore
been appointed by the usages of the courts of ‘equity.

Sec. 262. No receiver shall be appointed except in a
suit actually commenced and pending, and after notice to all:
parties to be effected thereby, of the time and place ‘of the
application, the names of the proposed receiver, and of his
proposed sureties, and of the proposed sureties of the
applicant. Such notice shall state upon what papers the
application is based, and be served upon the adverse party
or solicitor, at least five days before the proposed hearing,
and one additional dayfor every thirty miles of travel from
the place where the application is to be made by the usually
traveled route. or shall be published in the same manner as
notices of the pendency of suits to nontresident defendants.

SEO. -263. Should the delay occasioned by giving the
notice, provided for in the last preceding section, be hazardous to the rights of any party, the court or .judge may, by
order, direct the sheriff of the county in which such action is
pending, to take temporary possession of the property, and
shall appoint an early day for the hearing of the application,
and if, at such hearing, the application is refused, restitution
shall be made of the property [to the person] from whom the
same was taken.’

SEC. 264. Every order appointing a receiver shall
require the applicant to give a bond conditioned to pay all
damages which the other parties to the suit, or any ‘of them
may sustain, by r.eascnof the appointment of the receiver
in‘ case .it shall be finally directed that the order ought not
to have been granted, and shall also require the receiver to
give a bond conditioned to faithfully discharge his duties as
receiver, and obey all orders of the court. The said bonds
shalleach run to the defendant and all adverse parties in
interest, and be for the use of any party to the suit, and be
in a penal sum equal to double the value of the property in
question, and be executed by two or more sureties, to be
approved by the court or judge making the appointment,

and be filed in the county clerk's oiiice; nor shall the name
be considered executed until they are so filed.

SEC. 265. If a complainant shall. desire the appointment
of a receiver at the commencement of the action, he shall
pray such appointment in his bill‘. If the occasion for a
receiver shall arise while the suit is pending, the application
shall be made by a petition entitled in the cause, signed and
verified by the applicant, and setting forth the facts and
circumstances making such appointment necessary or proper.

S150. 266. Any party to the suit may, upon the hearing
of the application, show, by aflidavit or otherwise, objections
to the proposed sureties,. and to the proposed receiver, and
what is the value of the property to be taken possession of,
and that a receiver ought not to be appointed. He may also
nominate a person. to be receiver, giving at the same time,
the names of his proposed sureties. No person shall be
appointed receiver who is party, solicitor, eounsel, or in any
manner interested in the suit.

SEC. 267. Every order appointing areeeiver shall contain special directions in respect to his powers and duties,
and‘ upon application of any party to the suit, after due

notice thereof, such further directions shall he made in that»
behalf by the court or judge as may, in the further progress.

of the cause become proper.
SEC. 268. Every receiver shall be considered the receiver of any party to the suit and-no others.

SEC. 269. Every order appointing a receiver without
the notice provided for herein, except as otherwise provided
by law, shall be void, and every such order heretofore made,
urlder which the appointee has [nof] possessed himself of
the property in question,. shall he suspended until. an order,
shall have been made, and the bonds executedand filed in
accordance with the provisions of this title.

Sec. 270. When a decree shall be rendered in a suit in
which a receiver has been appointed, and such decree shall
not finally determine the rights of the parties, any one of
them may apply to the court for the possession of the property and proceeds thereof, in the receiver's hands. If such

application be resisted, the matter may,be referred to ‘a
master, to take and report to the court the testimony of the
parties. And in the coming i-n of said report, the court
shall, by order, award the possession_of the property and. the
proceeds thereof, to the party entitled thereto °, and thereupon,
the receiver shall surrender the property and the proceeds
thereof, to such party. Allordsrsappointing receivers,.giving
them further directions and disposing of the property, may
be appealed to the supreme court in. the same_.mari.ner as
final orders and decrees. ,  .. .. ,,

See. 271. Whenever in the exercise, of  authori,ty,t_he
court shall have ordered the deposit or delivery of money, or
other thing, and the order is disobeyed, the court, in\addition
to punishing such disobedience as for contempt, ‘may, make
an order requiring the sheriff to take the_money or thing,
and deposit or deliver it in conformity with the direction of
the court; Provided, however, That no court oriiany. judge
thereof, shall have power to order any receiver to make
lasting and valuable improvem'ent's on any property that may
be in his hands by virture of his receivership, excepting so
far as may be necessary to prevent waste of the same while
it is so in his hands. '

TITLE XII.
, _ Trz'al—Issuc.

SEC. 272. Issues arising on the pleadings, where‘ a fact
or conclusion of law is. maintained by one party and centreverted by the other. They are of two kinds,‘ First, Of law. .

Second, Of factSEC. 273. An issue of law arises upon a demurrer to
the petition, answer or reply, or to some part thereof.

SEC. 274. An issue of fact arises,First, Upon material allegation in the petition denied by
the answer. . ~ ”

Second, Upon a set.-ed‘ or counter claim presented in the

answer and denied by the reply. .. ‘
T_li:'rd, Upon material new matter in the answer or reply ,.

which shallbe considered as controverted by the opposite

party without further pleading.
S130. 275. Issues, both of law and of fact, may arise

upon diferent parts of the pleadings in the same action. In
such cases, the issues of law must be £rst tried, unless the

court otherwise direct. ;
31:0. 276. A trial is a judicial examination of the

issues, whether of law or of fact, in an action.

830. 277. Issues of law must be tried by the court,
unless referred,’ as provided in section two hundred and
ninety-nve. Issues of fact arising in actions for the recovery

V of money, or of specific real or personal property, shall he

tried by a jury, unless a jury trial is waived, or a reference

he ordered as hereinafter provided.
830. 278. All other issues of fact shall be tried by the

court, subject to its power to order an issue, or issues to he
tried by a jury, or referred, as provided in this code.

TITLE XIII.

Trials by Jury.

830. 279. The general mode of summoning, impanelling,
challenging and swearing the jury shall be as provided bylaw.

S130. 280. When the jury has been sworn, the trial
shall proceed in the following order, unless the court for
special reasons otherwise direct:

First, The plaintiff must briedy state his claim, and may
briefly state the evidence by which he expects to sustain it.

Second, The defhndant must then brieily state his
defense, and may briefly state the evidence he expects to
ofer to support it. ‘

Third, The party who would be defeated, if no evidence
were given on either side, must first produce his evidence;
the adverse party will then produce his evidence.

Fourth, The parties will then be conhned to rebutting
evidence, unless the court, for good reasons in funtherance of
justice, permits them to ofer evidence in their original case.

Fifth, When the evidence is concluded, either party may

request instructions to the jury on points of law, which shall
be given or refused by the court; which instructions shall
be reduced to writing, if either party require it.

Sixth, The parties may then submit or argue the case to
the jury. In the argument the party required first to
produce his evidence shall have the opening and conclusion.
If several defendants having separate defenses, appear by
different counsel, the court shall arrange their relative order.

Seventh, The court may again charge the jury after the
argument is doncluded.

SEC. 281. Whenever, in the opinion of the court, it is
proper for the jury to have a view of the property which is l
the subject of litigation, or of the place in which any
material fact occurred, it may order them to be conducted in
a body, under the charge of an odicer, to the place, which.
shall be shown to them by some disinterested person
appointed by the court for that purpose. While the jury
are thus absent, no person other than the person so appointed,
shall speak to them on any subject connected with the trial.

SEC. 282. When the case is finally submitted to the
jury, they may decide in court or retire for deliberation. If
they retire, they must be kept together, in some convenient
place, under the charge of an odicer until they agree upon a
verdict, or are discharged by the court, subject to the discretion of the court to permit them to separate temporarily at
night or at their meals. The omcer having them under his
charge, shall not sufer any communication to be made
to them, or make any himself, except to ask them if
they have agreed upon their verdict, unless by order of the
court, and he shall not, before their verdict is rendered,
communicate to any person the state of their deliberations or
the verdict agreed upon.

Sac. 283. If the jury are permitted to separate, either
during the trial, or after the case is submitted to them, they
shall be admonished by the court that it is their duty not to
converse with or sulfer themselves to be addressed by any
other person, on the subject of the trial, and that it is their

duty not to form or express any opinion thereon, until the
cause is finally submitted to them.

SEC. 284. After the jury have retired for deliberation,
if there be a disagreement between them as to any port of
the testimony, or if they desire to be informed as to any
question of the law arising in the case, they may request the
oilicer to conduct them to the court, where the information
upon the point of law shall be given, and the court may give
its recollection as to the testimony on the point in dispute,
in the presence of or after notice to the parties or their
counsel.

_:S_EC.: 285. The jury may be discharged by the court on
account of the sickness of a juror, or other accident or calamity requiring their discharge, or by consent of both parties,
or after they have been kept together until it satisfactorily
appears that there is no probability of their agreeing.

SEC. 286. In all cases where the jury are discharged
during the trial, or after the case is submitted to them, it may
be ‘tried again immediately, or at a future time, as the court
may direct.

8 SEC. 287. When the jury has agreed upon their verdict,
they must he emducled into court, their names called by the
"clerk, and the verdict‘ rendered by the foreman. When the
verdict is announced, either party may require the jury to be
poll'ed,which is done by the clerk, asking each juror if it is
his verdict. If any one answers in the negative, the jury
must again be sent out for further deliberation.

SEC. 288. The verdict shall be written, signed by the
foreman, and read by the clerk to the jury, and the inquiry
made whether it is their verdict. If any juror disagree,
the jury must be sent out again; but if no disagreement. be
expressed. and neither party require the jury to be polled,
the verdict is complete, and the jury shall be discharged
from the case. If, however, the verdict be defective in form
only, the same may, with the assent of the jury before they
are discharged, be corrected by the court.

7 Verdict.

SEC. 289. The verdict of a jury is either general or

special. A general verdict is that by which they pronounce,
generally, upon all or any of the issues, either in favor‘
of the plaintiff or defendant. A special verdict is that by
which the jury finds the facts only. It must present the
facts as established by the evidence, and not the evidence to
prove them ; H and they must be so presented as that nothing
remains to the court but to draw from them conclusions of

law.
SEC. 290. In every action for the recovery of money

only, or specific real property, the jury in their discretion,‘
may render a general or special verdict. In all other cases,
the court may direct the jury to find a special verdict, in
writing, upon all or any of the issues; and in all cases may
instruct them, if they render a general verdict, to find upon
particular questions of fact to be stated in writing, and may
direct a written tingling thereon. The special verdict or
finding’ must be filed with the clerk, and entered on the
journah
SEC. 291. When the special hnding of facts is inconsistent with the general verdict, the former controls the
latter, and the court may give judgment accordingly.
SEC, 292. When by the verdict either party is entitled
torecover money of the adverse party, the jury in their
verdict must assess the amount of recovery.

TITLE XIV.
Trial by the C'om't.

SEC. 293. The trial ‘ by jury -‘may be waived by the
parties in actions arising on contracts, and with the assent
of the court, in other actions, in the following manner:

First, By the consent of the party appearing, when the
other party fails to appear at the trial by himself, or attorney.

Second, By written consent in person or by attorney
tiled with the clerk.

Third, By oral consent in open court entered ,on the
journal.

SEC. 294. Upon the trial of questions! of fact by the

court, it shall not be necessary for the court to state its
Ending, except generally, for the plaintif or defendant, unless
one of the parties request it, with the view of excepting to
the decision of the court upon the questions of law involved
in the trial ; in which case the court shall state in writing the
conclusions of fact found, separately from the conclusions of
law.

Trial by Referees.

81:0. 295. All or any of the issues in the action, whether
of fact or of law, or of both, may be referred, upon the
written consent of the parties, or upon their oral consent in
court entered upon the journal.

SEC. 296. When the parties do not consent, the court
may, upon the application of either, or of its own motion,
direct a reference in either of the following cases :

First, Where the trial of an issue of fact shall require
the examination of mutual accounts, or where the account
is on one side only, and it shall be made to appear to the
court that it is necessary that the party on the other side
should be examined as a witness to prove the account; in
which cases the referees may be directed to hear and report
upon the whole issue, or upon any specific question of fact
involved therein.

Second, Where the taking of an account shall be
necessary for the information of the court before judgment,
in cases which may be determined by the court, or for
carrying a judgment into effect.

Third, When a question of fact, other than upon the
pleadings, shall arise upon motion or otherwise in any stage
of an action.

Snc. 297. The trial before referees is conducted in the
same manner as a trial by the court. They have the same
power to summon and enforce the attendance of witnesses,
and to grant adjournments, as the court upon such trial.
They must state the facts found and conclusion of law,
separately, and their decision must be given, and may be
excepted to and reviewed in like manner. The report of the

referees upon the whole issue, stands as the decision of
the court, and judgment may be entered thereon in the
same manner as if the action had been tried by the court.
When the reference is to report, the facts, the report has the
e&'ect of a special verdict. _

Size. 298. In all cases of reference, the parties, except
when an infant may be a party, may agree upon a suitable
person or persons, not exceeding three, and the reference
shall be ordered accordingly; and if the parties do not
agree, the court shall appoint one or more referees, not
exceeding three, who shall be free from exception.

8:0. 290. A reference, as provided in this title, cannot
be ordered by a probate court, except by consent of parties
to the reference and referees. I

Site. 300. It shall be the duty of the referees to sign,
any true exceptions taken to any order or decision by them

made in the case, and return the same, with their report, to
the court making the reference.

Size. 301. A judge in vacation, upon the written'
consent of the parties, may make an order of reference,

which the court, of which he is a member, could make in
term time. In such case, ‘the order of reference shall be
made on the written agreement of the parties to refer, and
shall be filed with the clerk of the court, with the other
papers in the case.

SEC. 302. The referees must be sworn or adirmed, well and
faithfully to hear and examine the cause, and to make a just
and true report therein, according to the best of their understanding. The oath may be administered by any person
authorized to take depositions.

SEC. 303. The referees shall be allowed such compensation for their services as the court may deem just and
proper, which shall be taxed as a part of the costs in the case.

Exceptions.

Site. 304. An exception is an objection taken to a
decision of the court upon a matter of law.
. 830. 305. The party objecting to the decision, must

except at the time the decision is made, and time may be
given to reduce the exception to writing, but not beyond the
term."

' 1:0. 306. ‘No-particular form of exception is required.
The exception must be stated, with so much of the evidence

as is necessary to explain it, and no more, and the whole as

briefly as possible. 

 SEC. 307. When the decision objected to is entered on
the record, and the grounds of objection appear on the entry,
the exception may be taken by the party causing to be noted,
at the end of the decision, that he excepts.

SEC. 308. When the decision is not entered on the
record, or‘ th‘e"gt‘ounds of objection do not sufliciently appear

I.

in the entry, the party excepting must reduce his exception
to writingand present it ‘to the court for its allowance. If
true,"it‘shal'l be the duty of a majority of the judges composing the‘ court',‘i)r of the‘ judge or court before whom the case
was or is being tried, to allow and sign it, whereupon it shall
be filed with the pleadings as a part of the record, but not
spread at large upon the journal. If the writing is not true,
the court sliall correct it, or suggest the correction to be
made, and itshall then be signed as aforesaid.

SEC. 309. ' All exceptions to the rulings of the court
shall be allowed and noted in the clerk’s minutes of the case,
and no exception shall be refused on the ground that it is
frivolous or immaterial to the question at issue.

SEC. 310. Exceptions taken to the decision of any court‘

of recordmay, by leave of such court, be withdrawn from the
iiles by the party taking the same, at any time before proceedings in error are commenced, and before the exceptions
are recorded. ’

TITLE xv.
New Trial.

SEC. 311. A new trial is a re-examination in the same
court of an issue of fact after a verdict by a jury, report of a
referee, or a decision by the court. The former verdict,
report or decision shall be vacated and a new trial granted

on the application of the party aggrieved, for any of the following causes a&'ecting materially the substantial rights of
such party: '

First, Irregularity in the proceedings of the court, jury.
referee "or prevailing party, or any order of the court or
referee," or abuse of discretion, by’ which the party was prevented from having a fair trial.

Second, Misconduct of the jury or prevailing party.

Z'Iu'rd, Accident or surprise, which ordinary prudence
could not have guarded against.

Fourth,‘ Excessive damages, appearing to have been given
under the influence of passion or prejudice.

‘Fifth, Error in the :l.<SC>.‘SIIlCIlt0ftl1‘: amount of recovery.
whether too large or too small, where the action is upon a
contract, or for the injury or detention of property.

S2'1'th,- That the verdict, report or decision is not sustained
by sufficient evidence, or is contrary to law.

Serve-nth, Newly discovered evidence material for the party
applying, which he could not with reasonable diligence have
discovered and produced at trial.

-Ez'g7ztIt, Error of law occurring at the trial, and excepted
to by the party making the application.

SEC. 312. A new trial shall not be granted on aecunt
of the smallness of the «lamages in an action for an injury to
the person or reputation, nor any other action where the
damages shall equal the actual pecuniary injury sustained.

SEC. 313. Theapplication for anew trial must be made
at the term the verdict, report or decision is rendered, and
except for the cause of newly discovered evidence, material
for the party applying, which he could not with reasonable
diligence have discovered and produced at the trial, shall be

i within three days after the verdict or decision was rendered,

unless unavoidably prevented.

SEC. 314. The application must be by motion, upon
written grounds, filed at the time of making the motion.
The causes enumerated in subdivisions two, three and seven
of section three hundred and eleven, must besustaincd by

lished.

aiiidavits showing their truth, and may be controverted by
aiiidavits.

SEC. 315. Where the grounds for a new trial could not,
with reasonable diligence, have been discovered before, but
are discovered after the term at which the verdict, report of
referee or decision was rendered or made, the application may
be made by petition filed as in other cases, on which a
summons shall issue, he returnable, and served or publication made, as prescribed in section seventy-eight. The
facts stated in the petition shall be considered as denied
without answer. and if the service shall be complete in
vacation, the case shall be heard and summarily decided
at the ensuing term. The case shall be placed on the trial
docket, and the witnesses shall be examined in open court, or
their depositions taken as in other cases, but no such
petition shall be filed more than one year after the nnal
judgment was rendered.

General Provisions.

Ste. 316. Whenever damages are recoverable, the
the plaintid’ may claim and recover any rate of damages
to which he may be entitled for the cause of action estabSEC. 317. The provisons of this title respecting trials
by jury, apply, so far as they are in their nature applicable, to trials by the court.

TITLE XVI.

Time of Trial.

SEC. 318. The clerks of courts of record shall keep at
least five books, to be called the appearance docket, the trial
docket, the journal, the record, and execution docket.

SEC. 319. On the appearance docket he shall enter all
actions in order in which they are brought, the date of the
summons, the time of the return thereof by the odicer, and
his return thereon, the time of filing the petition, all subsequent pleadings, and an abstract of all orders and judgments of the court.

SEC. 820. The trial docket shall be made out by the
clerk of the court, at least twelve days before the first day
of each term of the court, and the actions shall be -set for
particular days, in the order in which the issues were made
up, whether of law or of fact, and so arranged that the cases
set for each day shall be tried as nearly as may be on
that day. For the purpose of arranging said docket, an
issue shall be considered as made up when either party is in
default of pleading. .

SEC. 321. The trial of an issue of fact, and the assessment of damages in any case, shall be in the order in which
they are placed on the trial docket, unless, by consent of
the parties, or order of the court, they are continued or
placed at the foot of the docket. The time of hearing all
other cases shall be in the order in which they are
placed on the docket, unless the court, in its discretion,
shall otherwise direct. The court may, in its discretion, hear
at any time, a motion, and may, by rule, prescribe the time
for hearing motions.

Site. 322. Actions shall be triable at the first term of the
court, after the issues therein, by the times fixed for pleading,
are, or should have been, made up; and when, by the times
fixed for pleading, the issues are, or should have been, made
up during a term, such actions shall be triable at that term.
When the issues are, or should have been, made up, either
before or during a term of court, but after the period for
preparing a trial docket of such term, the clerk, if required
by the court, shall place such actions on the trial docket of
that term.

SEC. 323. In actions wherein default is made, judgment
shall be rendered at the first term after the service of process,

provided, service shall be made not less than ten days before
the term.

Sac. 824. The clerk shall make out a copy of the trial
docket for the use of the bar before the first day of the term
of court.

TITLE XVII.

iEvz'clenc'e-— Competency of Witnesses.

SEC. 325. Every human being of sufficient capacity to
understand the obligations of an oath, is a competent witness
in all cases, civil and criminal,except as otherwise herein
declare-l. The following persons shall be incompetent to
testify:

First, Persons of unsound mind at the time of their production. °

S'econ.d Indians and negroes who appear incapable of
receiving just impressions of the facts respecting which they
are examined, or of relating them intelligently and truly.

Third Husband and wife, concerning any communication
made by one to the other during the marriage, whether
called as a witness while that relation exists or afterwards.

Fourth, An attorney, concerning any communication
made to him by his client in that relation or his advice
thereon, without the client's consent in open court or in
writing produced in court.

Fzft/L, A clergyman or priest, concerning any confession
made to him in his professonal character in the course of
discipline enjoined by the church to which he belongs, without
the consent of the person making the confession.

SE6. 326. No person having a direct legal interest in
the result of any civil cause or proceeding, [shall] be a competent witness therein, when the adverse party is an executor,
administrator, or legal representative of a deceased person.

SEC. 327. Facts which have heretofore caused the
exclusion of testimony, may still be shown for the purpose of
lessening [effecting] its credibility. ,

SEC 328. The husband can in no case be a witness
against‘ the wife, nor the wife against the husband, except in a
criminal proceeding for a crime committed by the one against
the other, but they may in all criminal prosecutions be witnesses for each other. i

SEC. 329. Neither husband nor wife can be examined
in any case as to any communication made by the one to the

other while married, nor shall they, after the marriage
relation ceases, be permitted to reveal, in testimony, any
such communication made while the marriage existed.

SEC. 330. N 0 practicing attorney, counselor, physician,
surgeon, minister cf the gospel, or priest of any denomination, shall be allowed in giving testimony, to disclose any
confidential communication, properly entrusted to him in his
professional capacity, and necessary and proper to enable
him to discharge the functions of his oilice according to the
usual course of practice or discipline.

SEC. 331. The prohibitions in the preceding sections do
not apply to cases where the party in whose favor the
respective provisions are enacted, waives the rights thereby

conferred.
SEC. 332. A public officer cannot be examined as to

communications made to him in oilicial confidence, when the
public interests would suffer by the disclosure.

SEC. 333. A witness is not excused from answering a
question upon the mere ground that he would be thereby
subjected to civil liability.

SEC. 334. But when the matter sought to be elicited
would tend to render him criminally liable, or to expose him
to public ignominy, he is not compelled to answer, except as
provided in the next section.

SEC. 335. A witness may be interrogated as to his
previous conviction for felony. But no other "proof of such
conviction is competent except the record thereof.

SEC. 336. When part of an act, declaration, conversation, or writing, is given in evidence by one party, the whole .

on the same subject may be inquired into by the other; thus
when a letter is read, all other letters on the same subject
between the same parties may be given, and when a detached
act, declaration, conversation or writing is given in evidence,
any other act, declaration or writing which is ncessary to
make it fully understood, or to explain the same, may also be
given in evidence.

SEC. 337. When an instrument consists partly of

writing and partly of printed form, the former controls the
latter, where the two are inconsistent.

SEC. 338. When the terms of an agreement have been
intendedjn a diferent sense by the parties to it, that sense
is to prevail against either party in which he had reason to
suppose the other understood it.Snc. 339. Historical works, books of science or art, and
published maps or charts, when made by persons indifferent
between the parties, are presumptive evidence of facts of
general notoriety or interest. [And in case the answer of
the garnishee shall not be satifactory to the plaintiff, he may
take, issue thereon by alleging that the said garnishee is
indebted to or has property in his hands belonging to the
defendant, and such allegation shall make an issue to be
tried like any other issue of fact and judgment thereon enforced like any other judgment.]

SEC. 340. When a subscribing witness denies, or does
not recollect the execution of the instrument to which his
name is subscribed as such witness, its execution may be
proved by other evidence.

SEC. 341. Evidence respecting hand-writing may be
given by comparisons made by experts or by jury, with
writings of the same person which are proved to be genuine

SEC. 342. The entries and other writings of a person
deceased, made at or near the time of the transaction, and
in a position to know the facts therein stated, are presumptive evidence of such facts, when the entry was made against
‘-the interest of the person so making it or when made in a
professional capacity or in ordinary course of professional
conduct, or when made in the performance of a duty specially
enjoined by law.

See. 343. Books of account, containing‘ charges by one
party against the other, made in the ordinary course of
business, are receivable in evidence only under the following
circumstances, subject to all just exceptions as to their
credibility:

First, The books must show a continuous. dealing with

persons generally, or several items of charges at different
times against the other party, in the same book.

Second, It must be shown, by the party's oath, or otherwise, that they are his books of original entries.

Third, It must be shown, in like manner, that the
charges were made at or near the time of the transaction
therein entered, unless satisfactory reasons appear for not
making such proof.

Fourth, The charges must also be veritied by the party
or the clerk who made the entries, to the eR'ect that they
believed them just and true, or a su£cient reason must be
given why the verification is not made.

SRc.. 344. Every private writing, except a last will
and testament, after being acknowledged or proved and
certified in the manner prescribed for the proof or acknowledgment of conveyances of real property, may be read in
evidence without further proof.

SEC. 345. The judge of the court is a competent
witness for either party, and may be sworn upon the trial.
But in such a case it is in his discretion to order the trial
to be postponed or suspended, and to take place before
another judge.

SEO. 346. The usual protest by a notary public,

without proof of his signature or a notarial seal, is evidence
of the dishonor and notice of a bill of exchange or
promissory note.

TITLE XVIII. ‘

Article 1--Means of Producing Witnesses.

Sec. 347. The clerks of the several courts, and judges
of the probate courts, shall, on application of any person
having a cause or any matter pending in the court, issue a
subpcena for witnesses under the seal of the court, inserting
all the names required by the applicant, in one subpoena,
which may be served by the sheriff, coroner, or any constable
of the county, or by the party, or any other person. When
a subpceua is not served by a sheriff, coroner or constable,

proof of the service shall be shown by the ailidavit; but no
costs of service of the same shall be allowed, except when
served by an Otlicer. I

SEC. 348. The subpoena shall be directed to the person
therein named, requiring him to attend at a particular time
and place, to testify as a witness; and it may contain a
clause directing the witness to bring with him any book,
writing, or other thing under his control, which he is bound
by law, to produce as evidence.

SEC. 349. When the attendance of a witness, before
any ollieer authorized to take depositions is required, the
subpoena shall be issued by the ofhcer.

SEC. 350. The subpoena shall be served either by
reading, or by copy delivered to the witness, or left at his
usual place of residence; but such copy need not contain
the name of any other witness.

SEC. 351. A witness shall not be obliged to attend for
examination on the trial of a civil action, except in the
county of his residence, nor to attend to give his deposition
out of the county where he resides, or where he may be
when the subpoena is served upon him. ,

SEC. 352. A witness may demand his traveling fees,
and fee for one day's attendance, when the subpoena is
served upon him, and if the same be not paid, the witness
shall not be obliged to obey the subpcena. The fact of
such a demand and non-payment shall be stated in the
return.

Sec. 353. Disobedience of a subpoena, or a refusal to
be sworn, or to answer as a witness, or to subscribe a
deposition, when lawfully ordered, may be punished as a
contempt of the court or oflicer by whom his attendance or
testimony is required.

SEC. 354. When a witness fails to attend in obedience
to a subpoena, (except in case of a demand and failure to
pay his fees,) the court or oflicer before whom his attendance
is required, may issue an attachment to the sheriff, coroner
or constable of the county, commanding him to arrest and
bring the person therein named before the court or oliicer, at _a

time and place to be fixed in the attachment, to give his
testimony, and answer for the contempt. If the attachment
be not for immediately bringing the witness before the
court or oflicer, a sum shall be fixed in which the witness
may give an undertaking with surety for his appearance.
Such sum shall be indorsed on the back of the attach}nent,
and if no sum is so fixed and indorsed, it shall be one
hundred dollars. If the witness be not personally served,
the court may, by a rule, order him to show cause why an
attachment should nct issue against him.

SEC. 355. The punishment for the contempt mentioned
in section three hundred and fifty-three, shall be as follows r
When the witness fails to attend in obedience to the
subpoena, (except in case of a demand and failure to pay
his fees,) the court or ollicer may line the witness in a sum
not exceeding iifty dollars. In other cases, the court or
ohic;r may fine the witness in a sum not exceeding fifty
dollars nor less than five dollars, or may imprison him in
the county jail, there to remain until. he shall submit to be
sworn, to testify, or give his deposition. The fine imposed
by the court shall be paid into the county treasury, and that
imposed by the officer shall be for the use of the party for
whom the witness was subpoenaed. The witness shall also
be liable to the party injured, for any damages occasioned
by his failure to attend, or his refusal to be sworn, to
testify or give his deposition.,

See. 556. A witness so imprisoned by an ollicer before
whom the deposition is being taken, may apply to a judge of
5 supreme court, district court, or probate court, who shall
have power to discharge him if it appears that’ his impris-‘
onment is illegal.

81:0; 357. If a witness conceal himself, or in any other
manner attempt to avoid being personally served with a subpcena, any sheriff or constable, having the subpoena, may use
all necessary and proper means to serve the same, and for
that purpose may break into any building, or other place
where the witness is to be found, having first made known his
business and demanded admittance.

SEC. 358. Every attachment for the arrest or order of
commitment to prison of a witness by a court or ntiieer,
pursuant to this title, must be under the seal of the court or
ollicer, if he have an oflieiul soul, and must specify particularly the eztnse of the arrestor ebmmitznezit, and may be
directed to the she)-iii‘, coroner, or any constable of the
county irliere such Witness resides, or may be at the time,
and shall be'e:;ecuted by committing him to the jail of such
county, and delivering a copy of the order to the jailer.

SEC. 339. A person confined in any prison in this
territory, may, by order of any court of record, be required
to be produced, for oral examination in the county where he
is imprisoned; but in all other cases, his examination must
be by deposition.

SEC. 360. While a prisener’s deposition is being taken,
he shall rernain in the custody of the ofiicer having him in
cliarge, who Sllztll , afford reasonable facilities for the taking
of the deposition. i

SEC. 301. “A witness shall not be liable to be sued in 3
county in which he does not TC.:~l(.lC, by being served with a
summons in such county, while going," returning or attending in obedience to the subpoena.

SEC. 30". At the commencement of each day after the
first day, a witness may demand his fees for that day’s
attendance in obedience to a subpoena, and if the same be
not paid, he shall not be required to remain.

SEC. 363. Before testifying, the witness shall be sworn
to testify the truth, the Whole truth, and nothing but the
truth. The mode of administering the oath shall be such as
is ‘re most binding upon the conscience of the witness.

SE0. 36-1. In addition to the above remedies, if a party
to a suit} in his own right, on being duly subpoenaed, fail to
appear and give testimony, the other party may, at his
option, have a continuance of the cause, as in cases of other
witnesses, and at the cost of the delinquent.

ARTICLE II.
Jlfode of .'Z'u.r’.‘:'.»2,r/ l"c:sta'1)2012g/ of l‘V£t'/u*s.ses.

SEC. 365. The testimony of witnesses may be taken in
three modcs.—Fa'1'..:!, 3y aili»,laL'it.

Scco2z:i', By deposition.

T/i.z'2'J, By oral examination.

SEC. 365. An a{‘;i=lavit is a written declaration under
oath, made without notice to the adverse party.

SEC. 307. A deposition is awritten declaration, under
oath, made upon notice to the adverse party for the purpose
of enabling him to attend and cross-examine; or, upon
written interrogatories.

SEC. 338. An oral examination is an examination in
the presence of the jury or tribunal which is to decide the
fact or act upon it, the testimony being heard by the jury or
tribunal from the lips of the witness.

x117tc‘t7:lt'it.

SEC. 369. The aliid-.tvit may be used to verify a
pleading, to prove the service of a summons, notice, or other
process in the action, to obtain a provisional remedy, an
examination of a witness, a stay of proceedings, or upon a
motion, and in any other case permitted by law.

SEC. 370. An affidavit may be made in and out of this
territory, before any person authorized to take depositions,
and must be authenticated in the same Way, except as
provided in section one hundred and twenty-one.

ARTICLE III.

.Dep0sz'tz°o72s.

SEC. 371. The depositions of any witness may be used
only in the following cases:

first, When the witness does not reside in the county
where the action or proceeding is pending, or is sent for trial
by change of venue, or is absent therefrom. '

Second, When from age, infirmity or imprisonment, the
witness is unable to attend the court, or is dead.

Third, When the testimony is required upon a motion, or

in any other case where the oral examination of the witness
is not required.
SEC. 372. Either party may commence taking testimony

3 by depositions, at any time after service upon the defendant.

Oj/‘iccrs who may take t.7zcm.

SEC. 373. Depositions may be talden in this territory
before a judge or clerk of the supreme or district court, or
before a probate judge, justice of the peace, notary public,
mayor or chief magistrate of any city or town corporate, or
before a master, commissioner, or any person empowered by
a special commission ; but depositions taken in this territory,
to be used therein, must be taken by an officer or person
whose authority is derived Within the territory.

SEC. 374. Depositions may be taken out of the territory
by a judge, justice or chancelor of any court of record, a
justice of the peace, notary public, mayor or chief magistrate
of any city or town corporate, a commissioner appointed by
the governor of this territory to take depositions, or any
person authorized by a special commission from this territory.

SEC. 375. The oliicer before whom depositions are
taken, must not be a relative or attorney of either party, or
otherwise interested in the event of an action or proceeding.

SEC. 376. Any court of record of this territory, or any
judge thereof, is authorized to grant a commission to take
depositions within or without the territory. The commission
must be issued to a person or persons therein named by the
clerk, under the seal of the court granting the same, and
depositions under it must be taken upon written interrogatories unless, the parties otherwise agree.

Manozer of Taking and Authenticating Them.

SEC. 377. Prior to taking of any deposition, unless
taken under a special commission, a writtennotice, specifying the action or proceeding, the name of the court or
tribunal in which it is to be used, and the time and place of
taking the same, shall be served upon the adverse party, his
agent oriattorney of records, or left at his usual place of
abode. The notice shall be served so as to allow the adverse
party sullicient time by the usual route of travel to attend,

and one day for preparation, exclusive of Sundays and the
day of service, and the examination may, if’ so stated in the
notice, be adjourned from day to day.

SEC. 378. When the party against whom the deposition
is to be read, is absent from, or a non-resident of the territory,
and has no agent or attorney of record therein, he may be
notified of the taking of the depositions by publication.
The publication must be made three consecutive weeks, in
some newspaper printed in the county in which the action or
proceeding is pending, or if there be no paper printed in the
county, then in some newspaper printed in this territory of
general circulation in that county. The publication must
contain all that is required in a written notice, and may be
proved in the manner prescribed in section seventy-nine.

SEC. _ 379. The deposition shall be written in the
presence of the officer taking the same, either by the oflicer,
the witness, or some disinterested person, and subscribed by
the witness.

SEC. 380. The deposition so taken shall be sealed up and

indorsed with the title of the cause and the name of the
officer taking the same, and by him addressed and transmitted
to the clerk of the court where the action or preceding is
pending. It shall remain V under seal until opened by the
clerk by order of the court, or at the request of a party to
the action or preceding, or his attorney. '

SEC. 381. Depositions taken pursuant to this article,
1

shall be. admitted in evidence on the trial of any civil action
or proceeding pending before any justice of the peace, mayor
or other judicial officer of a city, or town corporate, or before
any arbitrators or referees, and such deposition shall be
sealed up, indorsed with the title of the action or proceeding,
the name of the officer taking the same, and addressed and
transmitted by such officer to such justice, mayor or other
judicial officer, arbitrators or referees.

SEC. 382. When a deposition has once been taken, it
may be read in any stage of the same action or proceeding,
or any in other action or proceeding, upon the same matter
between the same parties, subject, however, to all such

exceptions as may be taken thereto under the provisions of
this title. ,

SEC. 383. Depositions taken pursuant to this article by
any judicial or other officer herein authorized to take depositions, having a seal of ofiice, whether resident of this territory or elsewhere, shall be admitted in evidence upon t.he
certificate and signature of such ofiicer, under seal of the
court of which he is an oiiicer, or his otiieial seal, and no
other or further act of authentication shall be required. If
the oflieer taking the same have no ofiieial seal, the deposition, ifnot taken in this territory, shall be certified and
signed by such efiicer, and shall be further authenticated,
either by parol proof adduced in court, or by the ofiicial
certificate and seal of any sncretary or other oiiieer of state
keeping the great seal thereof, or by the clerk or prothonotary of the court having a seal, attestiaig that suelijudicial
or other officer was at the time of taking the mine, wizhin the
meaning of this title, authorized to take the same. But if the
deposition be taken within this territory, by an oiiieer having
no seal, or within or without this territory under‘ a special
commission, it shall be suflicientiy authenticated by the
oiiieial signature of the ofiicer or CO111Z1‘.'£‘.>‘i0Il taking the same.

SEC. 38'}. The oilicer taking thedeposition,shall annex
thereto a certiiicate, sliowing the following facts:

First, That the witness was 1’ira'.t sworn to testify the
truth, the Whole trutii, and hothizig but the truth.

Sccoml, That the deposition was reduced to writing by
some proper person (naming him.)

T/zircl, That the deposition was written and S’.1l>SC1‘lilC(l in
the presence of the oiiicer cert.il"_ying thereto.

Foam‘/z, That the deposition was taken at the time and
place specified in the notice.

SEC. 385. A deposition shall not be read in court if
the party objecting thereto shall show to the satisf'.1.t~tion of
the court that the attendance of the witness can be procured. I)7’0‘£’l..LZL’(l that the party offering the deposition
shall not thereby be compelled to go into trial without reasenable time to procure said witness, if he was not aware that
the attendance of such Witness could be had.

SEC. 386. Every deposition intended to be read in evidence on the trial, must be filed at least one day before the

day of trial.

}"7::eeptz'0:2s to I)epnsz't2'on.s.

 387. Exceptions to depositions shall be in
writing, speeiifinvg the grounds of objection, and filed with
the papers in the e;:n:=e.

SEC. 3138. D70 exception other than for incompetency
or irrelevaney, shall be regardeil, unless made and filed before
the commencement of the trial.

SEC. 53:59. The court shall, on motion of either party,
hear and decide the questions arising on exceptions to depo- '
sitione-, before the eommeizeemeiit of the ‘trial.

 39¢). Errors of the court, in its decisions upon
exceptions to dv;-po.-xi’;ions, are waived unless excepted to.

Aalrzz/’x'.s':'o22.s, 172.5.-It .‘.:‘ti.*'r;-22.9, an.-I .P2'0t‘Z2z;:.f:"r.»7z. of I).9cu.mcnts.

Sm“. 391. Eisher party may exliibit to the other or to
his attorney, at any time before the trial, any paper or document material to the action, and request a.n admission in
=.rriti1‘:g of its gcziiiiiieiiess. If the adverse party or his
attorney, fail to ‘give the a<l:iiisss.ion in writing Witlziu four
days after the 1°o<‘ln<*at, and if the party exhibiting the paper
or :lr,~cume:1t l‘-e a1"i.e1'n':m.ls put to any cost or expense to
prove its g<3I‘.ul?‘C‘I1C.~'S, and the same be finally proved or
admitted on the trial, such costs and expenses, to be ascertained at the trial, shall be paid by the party refusing to
make the aclinissioii, unless it shall make it appear to the
satisfaction of the court, that there were good reasons
for the 1‘ef:1.<z1l.

SEC. 392. Either party, or his attorney, may demand of
of the adverse party, an inspection and copy, or permission
to take a. copy of a book, paper or document in his posession or under his control, containing evidence relating to the
the merits of the action or rlefense therein. Such demand

shall be in writing, specifying the book, paper or document,
with sufhcient particularity to enable the other party to distinguish it, and if compliance with the demand, within four
days he refused, the court or judge, on motion and notice to
the adverse party, may, in their discretion, order the adverse
party to give the other, within a specified time, an inspection
and copy, or permission to take a copy of such hook, paper
or document; and on failure to comply with such order, the
court may exclude the paper or document from being given
in evidence, or, if wanted as evidence by the party applying,
may direct the jury to presume it to be such as the party
by affidavit alleges it to be. , This section is not to be construed to prevent a party from compelling another to produce any book, paper, or document, when he is examined as
a witness. SEC. 393. Either party, or his attorney, if required,
shall deliver to the other party, or his attorney, a copy of
any deed, instrument or other writing, whereon the action
or defense is founded, or which he intends to offer in evidence
at the trial. If the plaintiff or defendant shall refuse to
furnish the copy or copies required, the party so refusing
shall not be permitted to give in evidence at the trial, the
original, of which a copy_ has been refused. This section
shall not apply to any paper, a copy of which is filed with a
pleading.

SEC. 394. Printed volumes, in volumes .of statutes,
codes, or other written law, enacted by any other state or
territory, or foreign government, purporting or proved to
have been published by the authority thereof, or proved to
be commonly admitted as evidence of the existing law, in
the courts or tribunals of such state, territory or government, shall be admitted by the courts and officers of this
territory, on all occasions, as presumptive evidence of such
laws. The unwritten or common law of any other state,
territory or foreign .government, may be proved as facts by
parol evidence; and the books of reports of cases adjudged
in their courts, may also be admitted as presumptive evidence
of such law.

SEC. 395. The supreme or district court may, by rule,
require the production of any papers or books which are]
material to the just determination of any cause pending
before it, for the purpose of being inspected and copied by
or for the party thus calling for them.

SEC. 396. The petition for that purpose must state the ,
facts expected to be proved by such books. or papers, and
that, as the petitioner believes, such books and papers are
under the control of the party against whom the rule is
sought, and must show wherein they are material. The
rule shall thereupon be granted to produce the books and
papers, or show cause to the contrary, if the court deem
such rule expedient and proper.

SEC. 397. On failing to obey the rule, or show sufficient.
cause of such failure, the same consequences shall ensue as
if the party had failed to appear and testify, when subpoenaed
by the party now calling for the books and papers.

S150. 398. Though a writing called for by one party is
by the other produced, the party jthus calling for it, is not
obliged to use it as evidence in the case.

ARTICLE IV.

General Provisions.

SEC. 399. The posting up of or service of any notice
or other paper required by law, may be proved by the
adidavit of any competent witness, attached to a copy of
said notice or paper, and made within six months of the
time of such posting up.

SEC. 400. A copy of the field notes of any county
surveyor, or a. plat made by him and certified under oath
as correct, may be received as evidence to show the shape or
dimensions of a tract of land, or any other fact Whose
ascertainement requires only the exercise of scientific skill
or calculation.

SEC. 401. Such proof so made may be perpetuated and
preserved for future use by tiling tne Ilupcxn .L.mm mentioned in the ethos of the judge of probate, and the original

atiidavit appended to the notice or paper, if there be one,
and if not, the atiitiavit by itself‘, is presumptive evidence of
the facts stated therein, but does not preclude other modes
of proof now held sufiieiezit.

SW). 402. Any other f-act which is required to be shown
by 1l{..'”;*I1:1\'iiC,I1i1ti which 111:3}; be requirel for future use in any
action or other p1‘ocee<iin_q nifty he proved by p:1r.—‘-:'.ii:g the
C-)llI‘St‘:1iZ()YC imiic,-:ite<i, as Ii:-:u'}_y as the cireuimtrmees of the
C'.i':¥" *.'<i'.1 3:71:13.

E"~::".‘t. -103. Duiiy C!,’i‘t~i3neL‘ti copies of all records and
eiat;-ies or p1LpC‘1‘.S' ii::io:i;_gi:i;; to any }mh';i-e nf':'1oe, or by

1']

ant'i:e‘~1'i€V of law 11.31 to he iiept. tiieneizi, sin}! he ‘;Vi'i3I‘.Ct3

in 1131 <.-:°e<. of C"'1u:1l c1'e..iibiiit.Y \'.'i'.h the OI‘l',\;iZl£'L1 reeortis or
pztpz-1*; ro iiiezi.

S110. -153 L Everjy o17i:te1' lmvivg the eii.~:ttr.u1;' of :1 pubiic

recmwi or wriieizzgg. is ?mu::<1 to give :1'.;jr permzi on tiem..i..~;1 3

- (1

c<i'2‘tm.~-.1«:upy the:w>F, on p.i_Vn1e‘.:t oi‘ the i»'_"f_;‘Li fee.-"4 thzgrefor.

cm. 4.»-' r"It_ _,.'r
D,‘1;na ‘I 4’.). L11‘? CL‘: Ll:

i<.- it: oi’ :1.p'.1’)':ie ni?‘i3er that he has

m:ir'.e ~}i’i_:.g:);.t and i:i€.‘T~:e:L1:ii se:1r<.-i1.":>‘: :7. §*:i;"mr in hi.~‘.~ ofiice.

is of‘ tilt) .<t:mie e‘Jic::zt"_j.' in all (-.i.<-i-3 :13 if s'=.:.'.i1 oi'.ieer he-ti
}i:;*1'.~‘o:;-.;‘;'iu': ‘d:'%1')'_‘-'11‘-P-i ztzui >".\")1']i t’) .<n.::*i1 H313.

."t“.:»i‘.. -RFC}. The u::n:~.l tlziwiiente recpsipt of the rern:-i‘.'ei‘I\ 1

of :1i:;c i;'u‘Hi ofiiee, 02', It tax: he .:i.-,. m‘-:1-:x:;‘1'\_‘.*' - I, o1":~vn:‘.»i

C‘?

V ‘f3

the in-;:»»1 of th;> p1:‘fj,-'. i.lF‘. ce:'.;.1e:ite of such rec:-ivo;2=.', t.‘-mt
1:: ‘I3 ‘~:i—;; ot his n;’1i::-:' «Ca ‘xv the .‘<::tie‘ of (1. tl':1t'C oi’ }:::;«i to 3
le er1:1im‘.a:it to :1 patent

1'

Ct-1'>:i'~. ii1‘ii\'iIiYi;!i, is })1'oof'0i'ti
3.151?‘-.--T‘ :=.1z hutti‘eh=i:!:1'«)t‘ an :i.t:t'si::l pzztétit.

52:‘. —?;’7'T. A _i'..f.'.-i-11 i'er-ertl of thi: =:1'i-iii.)ry or of am’

0i.hr;~1' i‘\‘~i“‘l‘:‘.i 041:1‘: of the Uziiiml iiiiizttce, m'W he I‘l'o‘.'e-'1 bf

t}\ 3 ; - \ ‘I]{‘A.") T J’ t'I\(\ ‘ I. \:~;n1 vs ‘xx- ,~~-rv '1 rm-31‘. .,~\*.;'-N1

-1L .i(‘--nip?‘ ‘ti it‘; l'~i}'_“Il.lllg 0'. Ly 3; C-3. u‘ ;.i« L,‘»x, c..!Li;1 '

bv ti:-2 Ci"}‘i{ or the Y‘/J‘;'.< m hnriitg the izwil cu. ';"»:I\,' thwcof.
I.‘ ‘ I‘ K: or

'1‘ I

a.t1thei'1i~-:1ieti hi: i;i.~= 41:-.‘.ti of mii-so It i2.?i!E1VC one.

V., , {“Et\ -"1

 ~ .  ..». _t;:;1t at a. r-i-:tr:1' :<t;1te inay he prmei hf: the
:ztte=:.-iii-i‘: of the C‘-asrk 3:111 the Seal of the court, tmnexeui,
it’ ti:~r:> he :1 .~:e:1‘.. t.\j;f:ti1e1' with :1. <:e‘~.‘ti;":C:tte of" a jzzzige,
ehiet‘ _iu.~:tiee, or ])i"t,‘9itiil‘._‘.§ 1i1:1;,;i-rti';1te., that the ztttesttttion is

ill (’!'..‘ F4y‘_‘\}\ nr la|.\V'o
S.‘-, i. 409. The ofiieiai certiiicate of a justice of the

peace of any of the United States, to any judgment, and
the preliminary proceeding before him, supported by the
oiiicial certificate of -the clerk of any court of record within
the county in which such justices reside, stating that he is
an acting justice of the peace of that county, aml that the
signature of his certificate is genuine, is suflicient evidence
of such proceedings {L1l(1_].1IllgI11t‘llt.

SEC. 410. Copies of reeorsls and pa-oceecliugs in the
courts of a foreign country may be atlmitted in eviclenee
upon being autlieiitieateal as follows :

_Fz'r.s-z‘.,  the etiicizxl attestation of the clerk or <ifTiee1'
in whose cuetonly such recor«.l.~; are legally kept.

Sccoizr], By cc1'tiF1c-ate of one of tlieji1'l_{;r.~s or inrigistratcs
of such court, that the person so attcvtizzg is: the clerltc or
ofliccr le_g:1lly iI2‘C1'H:~‘iL!.i with the ciietotly 0i' .~'.:1el1 re«:cr:l..~',
and that the si;_;1:atiii'e to his :1tt«o~ef:1tion is gc~m.1i*.*:e.

T/'zz'rc_7, By the oiiicizzl ccrtifimite of the ofiiti-oi‘ who has
the cu.-to«iy of the priueip:1l:3e:il of the g‘;o\.'erni:1e:.t :1mit:1'

whose :1ui';ioritV the court is lieixl, att:-;~:te.l by F‘:1i(l seal

0’

stating tint such court is duly ctimiitiiferl, .Qpeeii"."1i;; the
general nature of its jziriss-.1ic:ion and \'r;-rif'_\'E2*..:: the tsetil of

the court.

SEC. 411. Acts of the executive 01 the Unitezl ."3t.e.t-331
or of this tc1'1‘it<;r_v,or of aziy state in the ui;io‘;, or of a

foreign go\'ex'nui»:-tit, are ‘pi"}‘.’Ctl by the 1‘cC.’)1'«l~: of the sf-rte

iv‘/3

ciepartmc-i.t of the 1‘3~'pccti\’e f;;ix'e1':iinc1eit;z, or by ;~n:.~:....
docttzntmts pi1:‘p.o1'tiiig to l:-ave been prizzteil levy o‘.'<1<.-1' of the
legislatures of those ;._;'r)vt-xxziiicioits re“peeti*.'ely, or 1);,’ either
iimlnch tl.C-.‘.‘eol'.

SEC. 412. The pro::ee<liu_:;: of the leg?-:l:iti1i'.) of i.lXi.‘:lI
territory, or any state of the union, or of the Uuitezl 5§t:'.te.3,
or of any i‘t>i'eigr1 :_j-‘«")\'Ci'il'.11CI1t, are pro‘.'etl hy the jo;1r:ml.s' of
those l)or‘.ie.~:, z'e.~pccti\'ely, or of‘ either l)r;mcii the-2'eol', -.1111}
either by copies oliicielly certiiieri hy the cleric of the house
in which the procei;-zliags were ha-.l, or by 0. copy p1i1'}_:oi'tiiig
to have been pi'l1ltC(,l by their or:.ler.

SEC. 413. Priutel copies of they :.tat.utc l:m':5 of tl.i.~;,,

territory, or any of the United States, or of cozigz-;:.s;-, or of

l

any foreign government, purporting or proved to have been
published under authority thereof, or proved to be commonly
ly admitted as evidence of the existing laws in the courts of
such state or government, shall be admitted in the courts of
this territory as presumptive evidence of such law.

SEC. 414. The public seal of the territory or county
affixed to a copy of a written law or other public writing, is
also admissible as evidence of such law or writing respectively.
The unwritten law of any other state or government may be
proved as fact by parol evidence, and also by the books of

reports of cases adjudged in their courts.

ARTICLE V.

Proceedings to Perpctuate Testimony.

Sec. 415. The testimony of alwitness may be perpetuated in the following manner :
SEC. 416. The applicant shall tile in the oiiice of the

clerk of the district court, a petition, to be verified, in which
shall be set forth, specially, the subject matter relative to
which testimony is to be taken, and the names of the persons
interested, if known to the applicant; and if not known,
such general description as he can give of such persons, as
heirs, devisees, alienees or otherwise. The petition shall
also state the names of the witnesses to be examined, and
the interrogatories to be propounded to_ each; that the
applicant expects to be a party to an action in a court of
this territory in which such testimony will, as he believes, be
material, and the obstacles preventing the immediate commencement of the action, where the applicant expects to be
the plaintiff.

SEC. 417. The court or a judge thereof, may forthwith
make an order allowing the examination of such witnesses.
The order shall prescribe the time and place of the examination, how long the parties interested shall be notified thereof,
and the manner in which they shall be notified. ’

SEC. 418. When it appears satisfactorily to the court or

judgc_ that the parties interested cannot be personally

notified, guch court or judge. shall appoint a competent
attorney to examine the petition and prepare and file cross
interrogatories to those contained therein. The witnesses
shall be examined upon the interrogatories of the applicant,
and upon cross interrogatories, where they are required to
be prepared, and no others shall be propounded to them;
nor shall any statement he received which is not responsive
to some one of them. The attorney filing the cross interrogatories shall‘ be allowed a reasonable fee therefor, to be
taxed in the bill of costs.

SEC. 419. Such depositions shall be taken before some
one authorized by law to take depositions, or before some
one specially authorized by the court or judge.,_and shall be
returned to the clerk’s office of the court in which the
petition was filed.

SEC. 420. The court or judge, if satisfied that the
depositions have been properly taken, and, as herein required,
shall approve the same and order them to be filed; and, if a
trial he had between the parties named in the petition, or
their priores or successors in interest, such depositions or certined copies thereof may begiven in evidence by either party,
where the witnesses are dead or insane, or where their
attendance for oral examination cannot be obtained or
required; but such depositions shall be subject to the same
objections for irrelevancy and incompetancy as may be
made to depositions taken pending an action.

SEC. 421. The applicant shall pay the costs of all
proceedings under this article.

TITLE XIX.

Judgment.

81:0. 422. A judgment is the final determination of the
4 rights of the parties in action.

810. 423. Judgment may be given for or against one or
more of several plaintiffs, and for or against one or more of
several defendants; it may determine the ultimate rights

of the p."1:‘tic:s on either side, as hot‘:-.'ee~': thcuiselves,
::ml it run‘; gr:1nt to the <l.“i'c-;c‘-.:i:it :12:'.r z=.i.i-_‘.;i:t‘ive 1't'llL3f to
vshich he inuy he entitloii. In an action ag'::':;-t set’:-ral
(loll-i:<l;1i.t_<,tE1o cm'.1'tma\_', in its di.=ci'c:io::, li'Ci3l}.l“l' ju-.3‘-__;":)L-zit.

.. I ,_. y.’ u x n . R‘ 1,": \ ],. 1'' fr ‘ ‘j 1 '0: "I 4',’ 1 7.9.". 7
:1s3.:,;..t. one ()1 1i]«)1(.Ol. ltlcllx, condo ill’. .1Ll.O.. L) ‘)l”m..,(1

::-::-.Eu:~.t the <»th<;r.<, v;herio\'c1' a ::e'.'cr;tl l]l1*.i:é‘1l';C'I]t. may

be proper‘. Tit»; court Inny also tll.<1!ll;-%.S‘ the petition with
c(,_,:_-, in 1‘;im1- of (me or mm-o tl’.'fc).}tl32iis, in case of
l.llll‘L‘Z1"Ui:{iiJlL‘ Ii(‘f_;lOL’i on the part of ill": plztintill to serve the
summons on other C;ei‘».»::«i::,i.'it.s, or to }f.;'r;c-cctl in the cause
agztiazrzt tl'.e ileh-nc:t::t or «lc~f'cIi(iuiit;s .<£,‘1‘VL‘tl.

-.‘.Tro. -*1-2; . An a:rLio.; may be dis;'ni.sset'l without prejudice to a future zietinn.

]v'[rs(,  the plaintiff’, l;>ef'ore the final sul_nni.ssion of the
(:n.<=c to the jury, or to the court, Wnere the trial is by the
court.

t-'.:cmzr3, By the court, Where the pl;1inti1'i' fails to appear
on tlie trial.

T/’}c'm7, By the court, for want of r.ecessary parties.

.lr‘,,2(rI?:, 113: the court, on application of some of the
defomltints, win-re th:::'c are others whom the plaintifffails to
prosecute tsith (lilig;-zicée.

FM/2, By the court, for disohe-.lience by the plaintif of
an order concerning the proceedings in the action. In all
other cases, upon the trial of the action, the decision must
he on the merits.

SEC. 425. In any case where a set-off or counter claim
has been presented, the defendant shall have the right of
proceeding to the trial of his claim, although the plaiutif
may have dismissed the action or failed to appear.

SEC. 426. In actions to enforce a mortgage or other
lien or charge, a. personal judgment shall be rendered for the
amount due, with interest, and for the sale of the property
charged, and the application of the proceeds ; or such application may be reserved for further order of the court. VVhen
the same mortgage embraces separate tracts of land, situated
in two or more counties, the sheritf of each county shall

make sale of the lands situated in the county of which he is

sheriti. IT.) 1'.;~ni ('5-.s.*{}I{‘ r.'i:hi.>1 tnis te1'ri:o1°y .‘_‘i1I‘.ii be szohl for

the ]‘:;27;;.:._e..i oi’ n:i_'~: 1.19;:  in :'Cc111'ii'.= ‘far w':iI{-u it lHi1‘,'i1LH’e

-4

‘I 1 ‘ I ‘ ‘ V. 7' V.’ ‘n . o - "l’.. ‘ 0 ..
b3‘Q‘i1 Wins} ."“‘f‘, '.‘i'I\'l‘j‘|s: ill £H1l.3hU. '.(.-.3 (Bi xl»‘]l‘.~.1,‘,',h1\a‘.'C hi 3 C-Ulllh

1- \ ‘ .1 ‘dc 1.  g I’. 5.‘ v \- 1' -. ‘
Of CO{1i tint‘ It 1.l1i."r('.Ci.H).l Uluuflli-1' S»L'LLi1 Erliii.
,_I 3 ('3

SEC. =1..lT. \'-[iron a _jud;a;n1c1'it. shall be 1'e:;do.-‘c-:1 for n.
cozs\'e_y;i:.cu. 1'c'.cns.=,;; or :tL:(1:liit'.LI‘iCC., in any c'):'.:'t of five territory, :1>.;d Lire jurty agziixxst Wimlll the j'.‘.t1.';‘.‘i}.;‘.‘iif. :'-huii be

S.

rendered, <'_:n::'- 5;<'>t co:npi_y ti:orc*.viiii i,:_y the tin:-.- :13’: it-v.7:.ie:.i,

such j1id:_-ti’ .:“..i‘ rsin-.21 have the sznzie 1‘.:£,;"\.'].'ii'il'i|J‘.l and off. \ I, and

be as a\'z1ii._i;ic 1;‘: ii’ the c()ii'vu}':11.ce_. 3‘CiC2;'~'C or :1: ziuiltzzgzcc

had been rm,-cut;-d coiii'«,«1'ina‘o1j"to such jz;-'i;;1:';ott; or the

court nn1_j»' order such c.r);i\'ex':-nice, 1‘L‘iCLi:'»§: or znrquiittzil to be

exocuted in ti-.e first izist;;.;co 1.3: the slierifi', and such conveyance I‘(iCz1Sc or zxcquiitzmcc so e.‘;:-outed, shall have the

same efreet as if executed by the party ag:iini-it r.’h.nn the

judge1uent.r.'u:3 rendcrr-d. This action shall zzp}.i:,' to deer ‘<3
rendered or to he rc.:de1'cd in suits now pending.

SEC. 33:3. Ii" the taking of an :i.c(°.ou'.:;t, 01' the proof
ofa fact, or the asscsstnent ofdznnagcs, be 11C(:L‘S.%11l‘ytO
enable the court to proiiouzicejxidgmeiit upon a fniiurn to
azism-.1‘, or after the decision of an issue of law, the court
may, with the assent of the party not’ in default, take the
account, hear the proof, or iissessi the d;i:n:1:_;:~s, or niny, with
the iike assent, reilr the same to at refer '0, ’ ester or cor.:missioner, or Ina}-' direct the same to be ascertained or 12:.‘4(*.$‘.S('d
by a jury. If a jury he ordered, it shall be on or after the
day on which the action is set for trial.

Juclgment by C'onfcssz'o7z—.

SEC. 429. Any person indebted, or against whom a

cause of action exists, may personally appear, in a court of‘

competent jurisdiction, and with the assent of the creditor,
or person having such cause of action, confess judgment
therefor, whereupon judgment shall be entered accordingly

SEC. 430. Judgment may be entered upon confession
by an attorney, authorized for that purpose by a. warrant of
attorney, acknowledged or proved as conveyance of land,

without any previous process or proceeding; and judgment
80 entered shall be a lien from the date of entry.

See. 43 . The debt or cause of action shall be briedy
stated in the judgment, or in writng, to be filed as pleadings in other actions.

Srze. 4432. Before any judgment. shall be entered by

fc.~:.~sion, an afliilavit of the defendant must be filed, stating

con
concisely the facts on which the indebtedness are, and that
the amnurzt of such indebtedness is justly due and owing by
the (ll*l‘CI;:l;1llt to the plaintiff.

SEC. 433. Suchjudgment shall authorize the same~proceedi.-gs for its enforcement as judgments rendered in action
regularly brought and prosecuted; and the confessions shall
operate as a release of errors.

SEC. 434. Every attorney who shall‘ confess judgment
in any case, shall at the time of making such confession,
produce the warrant\of attorney for making the same, to the
court before which he makes the confession, and the original
or copy of the Warrant shall be filed with the clerk of the
court. in which the judgment shall be entered.

S130. 435. If any person be in custody in a civil action,
at the suit of another, _no warrant of attorney executed by
the person in custody, to confess judgment in favor of the
person at whose suit he is in custody, shall he of any force,
unless some attorney expressly named by the person in custody be present, and sign the warrant of attorney as a witness.
Manna of Giving and Entering Judgment.

SEC. 436. When a trial by jury has been had, judgment
must be rendered by the court in conformity to the verdict,
unless it is special, or the court order the case to be reserved
for future argument or consideration.

SEC. 437. Where the verdict is special, or where there
has been a special finding on particular questions of fact, or
there the court has ordered the case to be reserved, it shall
order what judgment shall be entered.

SEC. 438. Where, upon the statements in the pleadings, one party is entitled by law to judgment in his favor,
judgment shall be so rendered by the court, though a verdict
has been found against such party. .

SEC. 439. Its counter claim or set-oil‘ established at the
trial, exceeds the plaintiff's claim so established, judgment
for the clef-.rn<lant mu~;t be given for the excess; or if it
appear that the defendant is entitled to any atlirmative
relief, judgment shall be given thcrr,-.ie'or. ‘

SEC. 140. It shall not be necessary to reserve, in a
judgement or order, the right of an infant to show cause
against it after his attaining full age; but in any casein which,
but for this secti-.n,such reservation wouldhave been proper,
the infant, within one year after arriving at the age of
twenty-one years, may show cause against such order or
judgment. _

SEC. 441. All judgments and orders must be entered
on the journal of the court, and specify clearly the relief
granted or order made in the action.

SEC. 442. The clerk shall make a complete record after
final judgment. of all cases involving the title to real propery,
or where the defendant has been constructively served, and
has not appeared to the action, either in person or by
attorney, and in no other case, unless requested so to do in
open court, at the time of entering the final judgment in the
C859.

SEO. 443. He shall make up such record in each cause,
in the vacation next after the term after which the same was
determined, and the presiding judge of such court shall, at
its next term thereafter, subscribe the same.

SEC. 444.” The records shall be made up from the
petition, the process, return, the pleadings subsequent thereto, reports, verdicts, orders, judgments, and all material acts
and proceedings of the court; but if the itemseof an account
or the copies of 3 paper attached to the pleadings be
voluminous, the court may order the record to be made by
abbreviating the same, or inserting a. permanent description
thereof, or by omitting them entirely. Evidence must not

be recorded.

SEC. 445. When the judicial acts 01' other proceedings
of any court have not been regularly brought up and recorded
by the clerk thereof, such court shall cause the same to be
made up and recorded within such time as it may direct.
When they are made up and on examination, found to be
correct, the presiding judge of such court shall subscribe the
same.

Size. 446. Judgments of courts of record of this territory.
and of courts of the United States, rendered within this
tetritory, shall be liens on real estate of the debtor, within
the county in which thejudgment is rendered, from the first

day of the term at which the judgment is rendered; but

judgments by confession, and judgments rendered at the

samc term during which the action was commenced, shall
bind such lands only from the day on which such judgment
was rendered. An attested copy of the journal entry of any
judgment, together with a statement of the costs taxed
against the debtor in the case, may be Eled in the ofiice of
the clerk of the district court of any county, and such
judgment shall be a lien on the real estate of the debtor,
within that county, from the date of filing such copy. The
clerk shall enter such judgment on the appearance and
judgment dockets in the same manner as if rendered in the
court of which he is clerk. Executions shall only be issued
from the court in which the judgment is rendered.
Conveyarnce by Uonmissioners.

SEC. 447. Real property may be conveyed by master
commissioners as hereinafter provided:

First, When by an order or judgment in an action or
proceeding, 2. party is ordered to convey such property to
another, and he shall neglect or refuse to comply with such
order or judgment. 7

Second, When specific real property is required to he
sold under an order or judgment of the court.

SEC. 448. A sherid" may act as master commissioner
under the second subdivision of the preceding section. Sales
made under the same shall conform in all respects to the
laws regulating sales of land upon execution.

SEC. 449. The deed of a master commissioner shall
contain the like recital-, and shall be executed, acknowledged

and recorded, as the deed of a sheriff, of real property sold
under execution.

TITLE xx.
Causes of Action which Survive, and Abatement of Actions.

SEC. 450. -‘In addition to the causes of action which
survive at common law, causes of action for mesne profits,

‘or for an injury to the person or to real or personal estate, or

for any deceit or fraud, shall also survive, and the action
‘may be brought, notwithstanding the death of the person
entitled or liable to the same.

SEC. 451. No action pending in any court, shall abate
by the death of either or both the parties thereto, except an
action for libel, slander», malicious prosecution for a nuisance,
or against a justice of the peace for misconduct in otice,
which shall abate by the death of the defendant.

TITLE. XXI-.

Revivor. Reivivor of Actions.

SEC. 452. Where there are several plaintids or defendant!
‘in an action, and one of them dies, or his powers as personal representative cease, if the right of action ‘survive to
‘or against the remaining parties, the action may proceed,
the death of the party or the cessation of his powers being
stated on the record.

SEC. 453. Where one of several plaintiifs or defendants
dies, or his powers as a personal representative cease, if the
cause of action do not admit of supervisorship, and the court
is of opinion that the merits of the controversy can be properly determined and the principles applicable to the case
fully settled, it may proceed to try the same as between the
remaining parties; but the judgment shall not prejudice any
who were not parties at the time of trial.

SEC. 454. When one of the parties to an action dies, or
his powers as a personal representative cease before the judgment, if the right of action survive in favor of or against his
representatives or successor, the action may be revived and

proceed in their names.
SEC. 455. The revivor shall be, by a conditional order

of the court, if made in term, or by ajudge thereof, if in
vacation, that the action be revived, in the names of the
representatives or successor of the party who died, or whose
powers ceased, and proceed in favor of or against them.

SEC. 456. The order may‘ be made on motion of the
adverse party, or of the representatives or successor of the
party who died, or whose powers ceased, suggesting his death
or the cessation of his powers, which with the names and
capacities of his representatives or successor, shall be stated
in the order.

SEC. 457. If the order is made by consent of the parties,
the action shall forthwith stand revived ; and if not made by
consent, the order shall be served in the same manner and
returned within the same time as a summons, upon the party
adverse to the one making the motion; and if sufficient
cause he not shown against the revivor, the action shall stand
revived,

SEC. 458. When the plaintiff shall make an atlldavit,
that the representatives of the defendant, or any of them in
whose name the action may be ordered to be revived, are
non-residents of the territory, or have left the same to
avoid the service of the order, or so conceal themselves that
the order cannot be served upon them, or that the names
and residence of the heir or devisees of the person-against
whom the action may be ordered to be revived, or
some of them, are unknown to the ailiant, a notice may
be published for six consecutive weeks, as provided by section seventy-eight, notifying them to appear on a day
therein named, not less than ten days after the publication
is complete, and show cause why the action should not be
revived against them ; and if sutlicient cause he not shown
to the contrary, the action shall stand revived.

SEC. 459. Upon the death of a plaintiff in an action, it
may be revived in the names of his representatives, to whom

his right has passed. Where his right has passed tohis personal representatives, the revivor shall be in his name;
where it has passed to his heirs or devisees, who could support the action if brought anew, the revivor may be in their
names.

SEC. 460. Upon the death of a defendant in an action,
whereir. the right or any part thereof "survives, against
any of his personal representatives, the revivor shall be
against them; or it may, also, be against the heirs or devisees of the defendant, or both, when the right of action or
any part thereof survives against them.

SEC. 461. Upon the death of a defendant in an action
for the recovery of real property only, or which concerns
only his rights or claims to such property, the action may be
revived against his heirs or devisees, or both, and an order
therefor may be forthwith made in the manner directed in
the preceding sections of this title.

SEC. 462. An order to revive an action against the
representatives or successor of a defendant, shall not be
made without the consent of such representatives or successor, unless in one year from the time it could have been
first made.

SEC. 463. An order to revive an action in the names of
the representatives or successor of a plaintif, may be made
forthwith, but shall not be made without the consent of the
defendant, after the expiration of one year from the time
the order might have been first made; but, where the d.efendant shall also have died or his powers have ceased in the
meantime, the order of revivor, on both sides, may he made
in the period limited in the last section.

SEC. 46-1. When it appears to the court, by aflidavitu

that either party to an action has been dead, or where a
party sues or is sued as a personal representative, that his
powers have ceased for a period so long that the action
cannot be revived in the names of his representatives or successor, without the consent. of both parties, it shall order
the action to be stricken from the docket.

SEC 465. At any term of the court succeeding -the

death of the plaintiff, while the action remains on the docket,
the defendant having given to the plaintiff's proper representatives, in whose names the action might, be revived, ten days
notice of the application therefor, may have an order to
strike the action from the docket, and for costs against the
estate of the plaintiff, unless the action is forthwith revived.

SEC’. 466. When, by the provisions of the preceding
sections, an action stands revived, the trial thereof shall
not be postponed by reason of the revivor, if the action
would have stood for trial at the term the revivor is complete,
had no death or cessation of powers taken place._

Revivor and new parties to Judgment.

SEC. 467. When a judgment is recovered against one
or more persons jointly indebted upon contract,,those who
were not originally summoned may be made parties to the
judgment by action.

SEC. 468. If either or both parties die after judgment
and before satisfaction thereof, their representatives, real or
personal or both, as the case may require, may be made
parties to the same, in the same manner as is prescribed for
reviving actions before judgment; and such judgment may
be rendered and execution awarded as might or ought to be
given or awarded against the representatives, real or personal or both, of such deceased party.

SEC. 469. If a judgment become dormant, it may be
revived in the same manner as is prescribed for reviving
actions before judgment.

TITLE XXII.

ARTICLE I.

Executions.

SEC. 470. Executions shall be deemed process of the
court, and shall be issued by the clerk and directed to the
sheriif of the county. They may be directed to different
counties at the same time.

SEC. 471. Executions are of four kinds.

First, Against the property of the judgment debtor.

Second, Against his person.

Third, For the delivery of the possession of real orpersonal property, with damages for withholding the same.
and costs.

Fourth, Executions in special cases.

Executions against the property of the Judgment Debtor.

SEC. 472. Lands, tenements, goods and chattels, not
exempt by law, shall be liable to be taken on execution and‘
sold as hereinafter provided.

SEC. 473. All real estate, not bound byithe lien of the
judgment, as well as goods and chattels of the debtor, shall
be bound 1" rom the time they shall be seized’ in execution.

SEC. 474. On all judgments. and‘ decrees hereafter‘
rendered in any of the district courts in this territory. there
shall he stay of execution or order of sale, as the case may
be, as hereinafter provided.

SEC. 475. The order of sale on all decrees for the sale
of mortgaged premises, shall he stayed forthe period of one{
year. from and after the rendition of such,deeree, whenever
the defendant shall desire such stay, and shall within twenty
days after the rendition of such, decree, file with the clerk
of such court, a. written. request for the same: Provided,
That if the defendant make no. such request within said
twenty days,_the.order of sale. may issue immediately after
the expiration thereof. '

SEC. 470, Execution on all_ judgments hereafter rendered in said, courts, shall he stayed for the period of one
year from and after the rendition thereof: Provided, The

defendant shall, within twenty days, after the judgment is
obtained, show to the satisfaction of such court or the
judge thereof, that he or she is the owner of real estate in
the county of sutiicient value, over and above incubrahces,
to pay such judgment.

SEC. 477. On other judgments or decrees of said,

courts, execution or orders of sale as the case may he, shall
he stayed for the period of one year, whenever the defendant,

within twenty days after the rendition thereof, shall enter
into‘ a bond to the plaintiff with one or more sufficient
sureties, residents of the county, tobe anproved by such
court or the judge thereof, conditioned for the payment of
the amount of such judgment or decree, together with the
interests and costs that may accrue.

SEC. 478. If execution shall not be sued out within
Eve years from the date of any judgment that now is or
may hereafter be rendered in any court of record in this
territory, or if live years shall have intervened between the
date of the last execution issued on such judgment and the
time of sueing out another writ of execution thereon, such
judgment sl:all become dormant and shall cease to operate
as a lien on the estate of the judgment debtor.

SEC. 479. The writ of execution against the property
of the judgment debtor, issuing from any court of record
in this territory, shall command the oflicer to whom it is
directed, that of the goods and chattels of the debtor, he
cause to he made the money specified in the writ, and for
want of goods and chattels, he cause the same to be made
of the lands and tenements of the debtor; and the exact
amount of the debt, damages and costs, for which the judgment is entered, shall bc indorsed on the execution.

S150. 480. When two or more writs of execution against
the same debtor shall be sued out, during the term in which
judgment was rendered, or within ten days thereafter, and
when two or more writs of execution against the same
debtor shall be delivered tlo the officer on the same day, no
preference shall be given to either of such writs; hut ifa
suilicient sum of money be not made to satisfy all executions,
the amount made shall be distributed to the several creditors
in proportion to the amount of their respective demands.
In all other cases the writ of execution first delivered to the
oilieer shall be first satisfied. And it shall be the duty of
the oliicer to indorso on every writ of execution the time
when he received the same; but nothing herein contained
shall be so construed as to edcctany preferable lien which

one or more of the judgments on which execution issued,
may have on the lands of the debtor.

SEC. 481. The officer to whom the writ of execution is
delivered shall proceed immediately to levy the same upon
the ‘goods and chattels of the debtor; but if no goods and
chattels can be found, the oiiicer shall indorse on the writ of
execution “no goods,” and forthwith levy the writ of
execution upon the lands and tenements of the debtor
which may be liable to satisfy the judgment.

SEC. 482. If the oflicer, by virtue of an execution

issued from ‘any court of record in this territory, shall levy‘

the same on any goods and chattels claimed by any person
other than the defendant, or be requested by the plaintiif to
levy on any such goods and chattels, the ollicer may require
the plaintiff to give him an undertaking, with good and
sufficient securities, to pay all costs and damages that he may
sustain by reason of the detention or sale of such property;
and until such undertaking shall be given, the ollicer may
refuse to proceed as against such property,

SEC. 483. In all cases where a sheriff, coroner or
other odicer, ‘shall by virtue of an execution, levy upon any
goods and chattels which shall remain upon his hands unsold
for want of bidders, for want of time to advertise and sell,
or any other reasonable cause, the officer may, for his own
security, take of the defendant an undertaking, with
security in such sum as he may deem sufficient, to the effect
that the said property shall be delivered to the officer holding
an execution for the sale of the same, at the time and place
appointed by said officer, either by notice g ven in writing
to said defendant in execution, or by advertisement, published in a newspaper printed in the county, naming therein
the day and place of sale. If the defendant shall fail to
deliver the goods and chattels, at the time and place mentioned in the notice to him given, or to pay to the oflicer
holding the execution, the full value of said good; and
chattles, or the amount of said debt and costs, the undertaking, given as aforesaid, shall be considered as broken,
and may be proceeded on as in other cases.

SEC. 484. The officer who levies. upon goods and
chattels, by virtue of an execution issued by a court of‘
record, before he proceeds to sell the same, shall cause.
public notice to be given of the time and place of sale, for
at least ten days before the day of sale. The notice shall.-'
be given by advertisement, published in some newspaper
printed in the county, or in case no newspaper be printed,
therein, by putting up advertisements in five public places in
the county; two advertisements shall be put up in the
precinct where thesale is to, be held. And where goods and,
chattels levied upon cannot be sold for?want of bidders: the.
officer making such return shall annex; to the execution a
true and perfect inventory of such goods and chattels; and,
the plaintiffjin such execution may thereupon sue out.
another writ of execution, directing the sale of the property
levied upon as aforesaid; but such goods and chattels shall
not be sold unless the time and place of sale be advertised,‘
as hereinbefore provided.

SEC. 485. When any writ shall issue, directing the sale.
of property previously taken in execution, the‘ officer issuing,
saidwrit shall, at the request of theperson entitled to the.
benefit thereof, his agent or attorney,_ad_d theretota command;

to the ofiicerto whom such.,writ shall be.directed,- that if the.

property 1'emainii_ig in his.hands not. sold,_shall, in his opin-.

ion, be insuffrcient to satisfy the judgment, he shall levy the.

same upon the lands and tenements, goods and chattels, or
either, as the law shallpermit, being the property of the
judgment debtor, suf}icient,to satisfy the debt.
' See. 486. If execution be levied upon the lands and
tenements, the odicer levy_ing such execution shall call an
inquest of three disinterested householders, who shall be
resident within the county where the lands taken in execution are situate, and administer to them an oath, impartially
to appraise the property so levied on, upon actual view; and
such householders shall forthwith return to said officer, under
their hands, an estimate of the real value of said property.
SEC. 487. The ollicer holding such appraisement shall
forthwith deposit a copy thereof in the ofhce of the clerk of

the court from which the writ issued, and shall immediately
advertise and sell said real estate agreeably to the provisions
of this title, but in no case shall he sell any such land for
less than one-half the appraised value thereof.

SEC. 488. If, upon such return, as aforesaid, it appear,
by the inquisition, that one-half of the appraised value of
said lands and tenements, so levied upon, is sullicient to
satisfy the execution with costs, the judgment on which such
execution issued shall not operate as alien on the residue of
the debtor's estate, to the prejudice of any other judgment
creditor; but no such property shall be sold for less than
one-half of_ the value returned in the inquest; and nothing
in this section contained. shall, in any wise, extend to effect
the sale of lands by the territory, but all lands, the property

of individuals indebted to the territory for any debt or taxcs,_

or in any other manner, shall be sold, without valuation, for
the discharge of such debt or taxes, agreeably to -the laws
in such cases madeand provided.

SEC. 489. In all cases where real estate may hereafter
be levied upon, by virtue of an execution or order of sale,
and shall have been appraised, and twice advertised, and
oifered for sale, and shall remain unsold for want of bidders,
it shall be the duty of the officer to cause anew appraise-.
ment of such real estate to be made, and successive exeeu.
tions or orders of sale may issue at any time in vacation.

after the return of the oilicer, “N ot sold for want of bidilers,“

at the request of the plaintiff or his attorney.‘

SEC. 490, If the property of any clerk, sheriff,‘ coroner
or justice of ' the peace, constable, or any collector of territorial, county, town or township tax, shall be leviedion, for
or on account of any moneys, that now are or may hereafter
be by them collected or received in their ofiicial capacity,
the property so levied on shall be sold without valuation.

SEC. 491. Lands and tenements, taken in execution, shall
not be sold until the officer cause public notice of the time
and place of sale, to be given at least thirty days before the
day of sale, by advertisement in some newspaper printed
in the county, or, in case no newspaper be printed in the

county, in some newspaper in general circulation therein, and
by putting up an advertisement on the court house door, and
in five other places in the county, two of which shall be in
the precinct where such lands and tenements lie. All sales
made without such advertisement shall be set aside on motion,
by the court to which the execution is returnable.

SEC. 492. If the court, upon the return of any writ of
execution, for the satisfaction of which any lands and tenements have been sold, shall, after having carefully examined
the proceetlings of the ollieer, be satisfied that the sale has,
in all respects, been made in conformity to the provisions of
this title, the court shall direct the clerk to make an entry
on the journal, that the court is satisfied of the legality of
such sale, and an order that the‘ ollieer make to the purchaser
a deed of such lands and tenements, and the officer, on
making such sale, may retain the purchase money in his
hands until the court shall have examined his proceedings as
aforesaid, when he shall pay the same to the person entitled
thereto, agreeably to the order of the court.

SEC. 493. The sherill‘ or other ofhcer, who, upon such
writ or writs of execution, shall sell the said lands and tenemdnts or any part thereof, shall make to the purchaser as
good and sullieient deed of conveyance of the lands and
tenements sold, as the person or persons against whom such
writs of execution were issued could have made of the same,
at or any time after they became liable to the judgment.
The deed shall be sufficient evidence of the legality of such
sale, and the proceedings therein, until the contrary be
proved, and shall vest -in the purchaser as good and as
perfect an estate in the premises therein mentioned, as was
vested in the party at, or after, the time when such lands
and tenements became liable to the satisfaction of the
judgment; and such deed of conveyance to be made by the
sherill or otherofiieer, shall recite the’ execution or executions,
or the substance thereof, and the names of the parties, the
amount and date of rendition of each judgment, by virtue
whereof the said lands and tenaments were sold as aforesaid,
and in case of assignment of certificate as provided in sections

five hundred and nineteen and five hundred and twenty, a
recital of such assignment, and shall be executed, acknowledged and recorded as is or may be provided by law, to
perfect the conveyance of real estate in other cases.

SEC. 494. The officer who levies upon goods and chattels,
or lands and tenements, or who is charged with the duty of
selling the same by virtue of any writ or execution, may
refuse to publish a notice of the sale thereof, by advertisement in a newspaper, until the party for whose benefit such
exection issued, his agent or attorney, shall advance to such
otlicer so much money as will be sufhcicnt to discharge the
fees of the printer for publishing such notice.

SEC. 495. Before any oilicer shall be excused from
giving the notification mentioned in the last section, he shall
demand of the party for whose benefit the execution was
issued, his agent or attorney, (provided either of them reside
in the county,) the fees in said section specified.

SEC. 496. All sales of lands or tenements under execution, unless otherwise ordered by the court, shall be held at
the court house, if there be one in the county in which such
lands and tenements are situated,‘ and if there be no court
house, then at the door of the house in which the district
court was last held. No sheriff or other officer making the sale
of property, either personal or real, or any appraiser of
such property, shall, either directly or indirectly, purchase
the same; and every purchase so made shall be considered
fraudulent and void. A

SEC. 497. If lands and tenements levied on as aforesaid
are not sold upon one execution, other executions may be
issued to sell thelands so levied upon.

SEC. 498. In all cases where two or more executions
shall be put into the hands of any sheriff or other officer, and
it shall be necessary to levy on real estate to satisfy the
same, and either of the judgment creditors in whose favor
one or more of said executions is issued, shall require the
oheriif or other otlicer, to make a separate levy, to satisfy his
execution or executions, it shall be the duty of theisherif, or
other oiiicer, to levy said executions, or so many thereof as

may be required, on separate parcels of real property of the
judgment debtor or debtors, giving to the officer making the
levy on behalf of the creditor, whose execution may, by the
provisions of this title, be entitled to a preference, the choice
of such part of the real property of the judgment debtor bi‘
debtors, as will be sufficient, at one-half of the appraised
value, to satisfy the same. And in all cases where two hr
more executions, which are entitled to no preference over
each ether, are put into the hands of the same officer, it shall
be the duty of the oflicer, ‘when required, to levy the same
on separate parcels of the real property of the judgment
debtor or debtors, when, in the opinion of the appraisers, the
same may be divided without material injury, and if the
real property of said debtors will not be sutiécicnt, at twothirds of its appraised value, to satisfy all the executions,
chargrable thereon, such part of the same shall be levied on
to satisfy each execution as will be at the same proportion in
value to the whole, as the amount of all the executions
chargeable thereon, as near as may be, according to the
appraised value of each separate parcel of said real property.

SEC. 499. If the term of service of the sheriff or other
oliicer, who has made, or shall hereafter make sale of any
lands and tenements, shall expire, or if the sherif or other
ollicer shall be absent, or be rendered unable, by death or
otherwise, to make a deed of conveyance of the same, any
succeeding sheriff or other officer, on receiving a certificate
from the court from which the execution issued, for the

sale of said lands and tenements, signed by the clerk, by.

order of said court, setting forth that sufficient proof has
been made to the court that such sale was fairly and legally
made, and, on tender of the purchase money, or if the same
or any part thereof be paid, then, on proof of such payment
and tender of the balance, if any, may execute to said
purchaser or purchasers, or his or their legal representatives,
a deed of conveyance of such lands and tenements so sold.
Such deed shall be as good and valid in law, and have the
same ehect, as if the sheri&' or other ofhcer, who made the
sale had executed the same.

SEC. 500. ‘If, on any sale made as aforesaid, there
shall be, in the hands of the sheriff, or other oiiicer, more 
money than is suflicient K0 satisfy the ’*.vrit'or writs of execution, with interest and costs, the sheriff or other oliicer
shall, on demand, pay the balance to the defendants in execution, or his legal representatives.

SEC. 501. If any judgment or judgments, in satisfaction of which any lands or tenements are sold, shall at any‘
time thereafter, be reversed, such ‘reversal shall not defeat
or effect the title of the purchaser or purchasers; but in
such case, restitution shall be made by the judgment
creditor, of the moneys for which such lands or tenementswere sold,wit.h the lawful interest from the day of sale.

SEC. 502. No judgment heretofore rendered, or which
hereafter may be rendered, on which execution shall not
have been taken out and levied, before the expiration of one
year next after its rendition. shall operate as a lien upon the
‘estate of any debtor, to the prejudice of any other band jicle

judgement creditor. But in all cases where judgment has

been or may be rendered in the supreme court, and a special
mandate awarded to the district court to carry the same into
execution, the lien of the judgment creditor shall continue
for one year after the first day of the next term of the district court to which such mandate may be directed. Nothing in this section contaiced shall be construed to defeat the
lien of any judgment creditor who shall fail to take out execution and cause a levy to be made as herein provided,
where such failure shall be occasioned by appeal, proceedings in error, injunction, or by a vacancy in the oilice of
sheriff and coroner, or the inability of such oliicer, until one
year after such disability shall be removed. In all cases where
real estate has been or may hereafter be taken on execution
and appraised, and twice advertised and offered for sale, and
shall remain unsold for want of bidders, it shall be the duty
of the court from which such execution issued, on motion of
of the plaintih, to set aside such appraisement, and order a
new one to be made, or to set aside such levy and

appraisement, and award a new execution to issue, as the
case may rcquirr-..

SEC. 503. The sheriff or other oilicer, to whom any writ
of e.\'ecution shall be directed, shall return such writ to the
court to wlxit-h the same is returnable, within sixty days
from the date thereof..

S120. .-W4. In all cases where jurlginent is rendered in
any court of record within this territory, upon any other
instrument of writing, in which two or more persons are
jointly and severally bound, and it shall be made to appear
to the court by parol or other testimony, that one or more of
said persons so bound signed the same as surety. or bail for
his or their co-defendant, it shall be the duty of the clerk of
said court, in recording.the judgment thereon, to certify
which of the defendants is principal debtor, and which are
sureties or bail. And the clerk of the court aforesaid shall
issue execution on such judgment, commanding the sheritfor
other ofiicer to cause the money to be madeofthe goods
and chattels, lands and tenements, of the principal debtor.
but for want of sufficient property of the principal debtor to
make the same, that he cause the same to be made of the
goods and chattels, lands and tenements, of the surety or
bail. In all cases the property both personal and teal, of
the principal debtor, within the jurisdiction of? the court,
shall be exhausted before any property of the surety or bail

shall be taken into execution.
SEC. 505. If any sheriff or other officer shall refuse or

neglect to execute any writ of execution to him directed,
which has come to his hands; or shall neglect or refuse to
sell any goods and chattels, lands and tenements; or shall
neglect to call an inquest, and return a copy thereof forthwith to the clerk's office, or shall neglect to return any writ
of execution to the proper court, on or before the return
day thereof; or shall neglect to return a just and perfect
inventory of all and singular, the _goods and chattels by him
taken in execution, unless the said sheritf or other officer,
shall return that he has levied and made the amount of the
debt, damages and costs; or shall refuse or neglect on

demand, to pay over to the plaintiff‘, his agent or attorney of
record, all moneys by him collected or received, For the use
of said party, at any time after collecting or receiving the
same, except as provided in section fourhuiidred and ninetytwo; or shall neglect or refuse, on demand made by the
aiefendzmt, his agent or attorney of record, to pay over all
me: eys by him received for any sale made, beyond what is
suflicient to satisf'_v the writ or writs of execution, with
interest and legal costs, such sheriff or other officer shall,
on motion in court, and two days notice thereof‘, in writing,
he amerced in the amount of said debt, damages and costs,
with twenty per centum thereon, to and for the use of said
plaintiff or defendant. as the case may be.

SEC. 506. If any clerk of a court shall neglect or‘
refuse, on demand made by the person entitled thereto, his '
agent or attorney of record, to pay over all money by him
received in his official capacity, for the use of such person,
every such clerk may be amcrced; and the proceedings
against him and his sureties shall be the same as provided for
in the foregoing section against sherills and their suretics.

SEC 507, When the cause of amercemcnt is for
refusing to pay over money collected as aforesaid, the said
sheriff or otherohicer shall not be amerccd in a greater sum
than the amount so withheld, with twenty per centu-in
thereon.

SEC. 508. When execution . shall be issued in any
county in this territory, and directed to the sheriff or
cifroner of another county, it shall he lawfulfor such sheriff or
coroner, having the execution, after having discharged all
the duties required of him by law, to inclose such execution,
by mail, to the clerk of the court who issued the same. On
proof being made by such sheriff or coroner, that the
execution was mailed soon enough to have reached the ofhce
where it was issued, within the time prescribed by law, the
sheriff or coror er shall not be liable for any amerccment or
penalty, if it do not reach the oflice in due time.

830. 509. No sherin‘ shall forward by mail, any money
nmdo_gn such execution, unless he shall be specially

instructed to do it by the plaintiff, his agent or attorney of
record. In all cases of a motion to amerce, a sherif or
other omcer of any county, other than the one from which
the execution issued, notice in writing shall be given to such

odicer, as hereinbefore required, by leaving it with him, or_az

his odice, at least fifteen days before the first day of the
term at which such motion shall he made, or by transmitting
the notice by mail, at least sixty days prior to the first day
of the term at which such ‘motion shall be made. All
amercements so procured, shall be entered on the record of
the court, and shall have the same force and effect as a
judgment.

SEC. 510. Each and every surety of any sheriff or
other odicer, may be made a party to the judgment rendered
as aforesaid, against the sherif or other oflicer-, by action, to
be commenced and prosecuted as in other cases. But the
goods and chattels, lands and tenements of any such surety
shall not be liable to be taken on execution, when suflicient
goods and chattels, lands and tenements of the sheriff or
other oflicer against whom the execution may be issued, can
be found to satisfy the same. Nothing herein contained shall

prevent either party from proceeding against such sheriff or
other omcer, by attachment, at his election.

SEC’. 511. In cases where a sheri&' or other ofhcefumay
be amerced, and shall not have collected the amount of the
original judgment, he shall be permitted to sue out an
execution, and collect the amount of said judgment in the
name of the original plaintiff, for his own use.

SEC. 512. When property, liable to an execution
against several persons, is sold thereon, and more than due
proportion of the judgment is laid upon the property of one
of them, or one of them pays, without a sale, more than
his proportion, he may compel contribution from the others;
and when a judgment is against several, and is upon an
obligation of one of them, as security for another, and the
security pays the amount, or any part" thereof, either by
sale of his property, or before sale, he may compel repayv
ment from the principal ; in such case, the person so paying

or contributing, is entitled to the benelit of the judgment,
to enforce contribution or repayment, if within ten" days
after his payment, he ‘tile, with the clerk of the court where
the judgment was rendered, notice of his payment and
claim to contribution or repayment. Upon a filing of such
notice, the clerk shall make an entry thereof in the margin
of the docket.

SEC. 513. Executions may be issued thereon, to the
sheriff, b‘y the clerk of the court, in the same manner as if
the judgment had been taken in court; and the sheriif
shall execute and return the same, as other executions; and
in case of sale of real estate, his proceedings shall be
examined and ‘approved by the court as in other cases.

ARTICLE II.
Redemption of Real Estate.

SEC. 514. Whenever any lands or tenements shall be
sold, by virtue of any execution, it shall be the duty of the
sherilf or other oilicer, instead of executing a deed of the
premises sold, to give to the purchaser or purchasers of said
lands or tenements, a certificate in writing, describing the
lands or tenements purchased, and the sum paid therefor, or
if purchased by the plaintiff in the execution, the amount of
his bid, and the time when the purchaser will be entitled to
a deed for such landsor tenements, unless the same shall
be redeemed, as is provided in this article, and such sheri8'
or other officer, shall, within ten days from such sale, file in
the omce of the ‘recorder of the county, a duplicate of such
cirtilicate signed by him, and such certificate or a certified
copy thereof, shall be taken and deemed evidence of the
facts therein contained.

SEO. -515. It shall be lawful for any defendant, his
heirs, executors, administrators or grantees, whose lands or
tenements shall be sold by virtue of any execution within
six months from such sale, to redeem such lands or tenements, by paying to the purchaser thereof, his executors,‘

administrators or assigns, or the sherif or other ollicer who

soldithe same, for the benefit of such purchaser, the sum of
money which may have been paid on the purchase thereof,
or the amount given or bid, if purchased by the plaintilf in
the execution, together with the interest thereon at the rate
of twenty per cent. per annum from the time of such sale;
and on such sum being paid as aforesaid, the said sale and
the certificate thereupon granted shall be null and void.
SEC. 516. After the c.v.piratio»n of six months, and at
anytime before the expiration of nine months from the sale
of any lands or tenements under the provisions of preceding sections hereof, it shall be lawful for any judgment
creditor to redeem the same in the manner following: Such
judgment creditor shall sue out an execution upon his jut gment and place the same in the hands of the proper odicer
to execute the same ; and thereupon the said officer shall
indorse upon the back of said execution a levy upon the
land or tenements which said judgment creditor may wish to
redeem ; and said judgment creditor shall pay to said officer
in whose hands he shall have placed his execution as aforesaid, the amount of money for which said premises shall
have been sold, with twenty per cent. per annum interest
thereon from the date of such sale for the use of the
purchaser thereof, his executors, administrators or assigns,
upon payment of which, said officer shall file in the recorder-'3
odice of the county in which said lands are situated, a
certificate of the redemption thereof by said judgment.
creditor uud or such execution, and shall advertise and offer
the same for sale under and by virtue of said execution, in
the same manner as lands are required to be advertised and
exposed to sale on execution in other cases.
Site. 517. Any judgment creditor having so redeemed
such lands, shall be considered as having bid at such sale the

amount of said redemption money so paid by him, and

interest thereon from the date of such redemption to the
day of sale; and if no bid greater than said amount shall
be [oEered, the lands shall be struck oil‘ and sold to such
creditors, and no other redemption shall be] allowed; but if
another and higher bid shall be made therefor, and the said

lands sold for more than the amount of said redemption
money and interest, as last aforesaid, the excess over and
above the amount of the same shall be applied asa credit
on the execution under which the redemption shall have been
made, and a certificate of purchase shall be executed to the
new purchaser in the manner hereinbefore prescribed for a
deed of said land so sold, within sixty days from the date of
such sale, unless the same shall be redeemed in the meantime
in the manner herein prescribed by some other judgment
-cred’-tor; and if such lands shall be redeemed from said purchaser, the same shall be done in the same manner and upon
the same terms, and the o$cer shall proceed in the same
mode to offer the said lands for sale as hereinbefore required
in the case of the first redemption; and such lands may be
successively redeemed within any period of sixty days, as
long as there shall be a judgment creditor disposed to
redeem the same on the terms and in the manner aforesaid;
and after the lapse cf any period of sixty days without
redemption, it shall be the duty of the othcer who last sold
such lands on the execution under which the same shall have
been last redeemed, or his successor in office, to execute a
deed for the lands so sold. to the last purchaser, in like
manner as other deeds for lands sold on execution are made.

SEC. 518. Any judgment creditor or creditors may redeem the whole or any part or portion of the lands or tenements previously sold upon execution; Provided, Such redemption shall he made in like distinct quantities or parcels
in which the same were sold.

SEC. 519. No commission upon the amount of the redemption money paid in any case shall be allowed to the

oilicer receiving the same, but the usual commission shall beallowed the ofiicer selling said premises on the excess made
over and above the amount of said redemption money and
interest. The duplicate ‘copy of the certificate of purchase
required in the five hundred and fourteenth section hereof,
shall be filed in the oilice of the register of deeds of the

county in which the said lands so sold under execution are
situated.

_ SEC. 520. Any certificate which shall be given by any
odicer to any purchaser under the provisions of this article,
shall be assignable, by indorsement thereon, under the hand of
such purchaser or purchasers, his, her or their heirs, executors,
adminstrators or assigns ; and any person to whom the same
shall be sold or assigned, shall be entitled to the same benefits therefrom, in every respect, that the person therein
named would have been if the same had not been assigned;
and in case the lands mentioned in such certificate shall not
be redeemed, in pursuance of law, shall be entitled to a deed
thereof.

Sac. 521. Any deed so executed shall be evidence that
the provisions of the law in relation to the sale of lands upon
execution were complied with, until the contrary shall be
shown, and such deed shall be considered as conveying to
the grantee therein named, all the title, estate and interest
of the defendant or defendants in the execution therein
named, in and to the lands thereby conveyed. of whatsoever
nature the same may be, but which shall not be construed to
contain any covenant upon the part of the odicer executing
the same:

Sec. 522. In all cases where lands shall be sold under
and by virtue of any decree of the court of equity, for the
sale of mortgaged lands, it shall be lawful for the mortgagor of such lands, his heirs, executors or administrators
to redeem the same in the manner prescribed by this article,
for the redemption of lands sold by virtue of executions
issued upon judgments at common law ; and the judgment
creditors may redeem lands sold under any such decree, in
the same manner as is prescribed for the redemption of lands
in like manner sold upon executions issued upon judgments
at common law.

SIG. 523. It shall he the duty of the recorder of the
proper county to £le and record the certilicates mentioned in
the foregoing sections in a book to be kept for that purpose, for
which he shall be entitled to the same fees as for recording
other papers, to be paid by the plaintiff in such execution,
and be taxed and collected by the sherif as other costs.

Sec. 524. Such certificate may be in substance as

follows:
Tsnnrronr or Wroumo, }
ss

. . County,

I do hereby certify, that by virtue of a certain writ of
 to me directed from the district court of
county, in favor of I , against .
Dated —--———— day of 18———-, I did on this
day of ————— 18——-, levy upon the following ‘ real
estate, (describe it.)

A. B. sherif, (or-coroner) of ——-——— county.

SEC. 525. In all cases of redemption of lands from sale
had under any attachment, judgment or decree, or proceeding thereunder, it shall be the duty of the purchaser,
sherif, master in chancery, or other oilicer or persons from
whom said redemption takes place, to make out an instrument in writing under his hand and seal evidencing said
redemption, which shall be recorded in the register of deeds
odice of the proper county in manner as other writings
effecting the title to real estate are died and recorded; and
which recording shall be paid for by the party redeeming.

 

 
 
 

 

 

ARTICLE III.

Proceedings in aid of Execution.

SEC. 526. When a judgment debtor has not personal
or real property, subject to levy on execution, suilicient to
satisfy the judgment, any equitable interest which he may
have in real estate as mortgagor, mortgagee, or otherwise, or
any interest he may have in any banking, turnpike, bridge
or ‘other joint stock company, or any interest he may have
in any money, contracts, claims or choses in action, due or
to become due to him, or in any judgmentgor decree, or any
money, goods or effects which he may have in the possession of any person, body politic or corporate, shall be
subject to the payment or such judgment by action or as
this article prescribe.

Size. 527. When an execution against the property of’
a judgment ‘debtor, or one of several debtors in the same
judgment, is issued to the sheriff of a county where he
resides, or, if he do not reside in the territory, to the sheriK
of the county where the judgment was rendered, or a
transcript of a justice’: judgment has been filed, is
returned unsatisfied in. whole or in part, the judgment
creditor is entitled to an order from a probate judge or judge
of the district court, of the county to which the execution
was issued, requiring such debtor to appear and answer
concerning his property, before such judge, or a referee
appointed bysuoh judge, at a time and place specified in
such order, within the county to which the execution was
issued. ,

SEC. 528. After the issuing of an execution against
property, and upon proof by the affidavit of the judgment
creditor or otherwise, to the satisfaction of a probate judge
or a judge of the district court, of the county in which the
order may be served, that the judgment debtor has property
which he unjustly refuses to apply towards the satisfaction
of the judgment, such court or judge may, by order, require
the judgment debtor to appear at a time or place in said
county, to answer concerning the same; and such proceedings may thereupon be had, for the application of the
property of the judgment debtor towards the satisfaction of
the judgment, as are prescribedin this article.

SEC. 5229. Instead of the order requiring the attendance
of the judgment debtor, as provided in the last two sections.
the judge may, upon proof to his satisfaction, by adidavit of
the party or otherwise, that there is danger of the debtor
leaving the territory or concealing himself, to avoid the
examination herein mentioned, issue a warrant requiring the
sherih" to arrest him and bring him before such judge within
the county in which the debtor may be arrested. Such a
warrant can be is.sued only by a judge of probate, or judge
of the, district court of the county in which such debtor
resides or may be arrested. Upon being brought before -the
judge, he shall be examined on oath, and other witnesses may

be examined on either side; and if, on such examination, it
appears that there is danger of the debtor leaving the territory, and that he has property which he unjustly refuses to
apply to such judgment, he may be ordered to enter into an
undertaking in such sum as the judge may prescribe, with
one or more sureties, that he will, from time to time, attend
for examination before the judge or referee, as shall be
directed. In default of entering into such undertaking, he
may be committed to the jail of the county, by warrant of
the judge, as for a contempt.

SEC. 530. N 0 person shall. on examination, pursuant to
this article. be excused from answering any question on the
ground that his examination will tend to ccnvict him of fraud,
but his answer shall not be used as evidence against him, in
as prosecution for such fraud.

SEC. 531. After the issuing of execution against
property, any person indebted to the judgment debtor may
pay to the sheriff the amount of his debt, or so much thereof
as may be necessary to satisfy the execution, and the sheriff's
receipt shall be a suflicient discharge for the amount so
paid, or directed to be credited by the judgment creditor on
the execution.

SEC. 532. After the issuing or return of an execution
against property of a judgment debtor, or any one of several
debtors in the same judgment, and upon proof by afiidavit
or otherwise, to the satisfaction of the judge, that any person
or corporation has property of such judgment debtor, or is
indebted to him, the judge may, by an order, require such
person or- corporation, or any officer or member thereof, to
appear at a specified time and place within the county in
which such person or corporation may be served with the
order to answer, and answer concerning the same. The
judge may, also, in his discretion, require notice of such
proceeding to be given to any party in the action, in such
manner as may seem to him proper.

SEC. 533. Witnesses may be required, upon the order
of the judge, or by a subpoena issued by the clerk of the
district court, to appear and testify upon any proceedings

under this article, in the same manner as upon the trial oi
an issue.

SEC. 534, The party or witness may be required to
attend before the judge or before a referee, appointed by the
court or judge. If before a referee, the examination must
be taken by the referee, and certified by the judge. All
examinations, and answers, before a judge or a referee,
under thisarticle, must be on oath, but when a corporation
answers, the answer must be on oath of an officer thereof.

SEC. 535. The judge may order the property ‘of the
judgment debtor, not exempt by law, in ‘the hands either of
himself or. any other person or corporation, or due to the
judgment debtor, to be applied towards the satisfaction of the
judgment, but the earnings of the debtor for his personal
services, at any. time within three months next preceding the
order, cannot be so applied,_ when it is made tn. appear by
the. debtor's a£idavit or.. otperwise, that such earnings are
necessary forthe use ofmil!-mil): supported wholly or partly
by his labor.

SEC. 536; The judge. may, also, by order,_appoint the
sheriff of the. proper county, or other suitable person, a
receiver of the property o£‘the judgment-debtor, in the same
manner and with like authority as if. the appointment was
made by the court. The judge may, also, by order, forbid a
transfer or other disposition of the property of the judgment
debtor, not exempt» by lawfand any interference therewith.

SEC. 537. If it-shall appear that the judgment debtor

"has any equitable interest in real estate in the county in

which proceedings are. bad, as mortgagor or mortgagee, or
otherwise, and the interest of said debtor can be ascertained,
as between himself and the person or persons holding the
legal estate, or the person or persons having a lien on, or interest in the same, without controversy as to the interest of
such person or persons holding such legal estate or interest
therein, or lien on the same, the receiver may be ordered to
sell and convey such real estate, or the debtors interest
therein. Such sale shall be conducted, in all respects, in

the same manner as is provided by this code for the sale of

freal estateupon execution, and the proceedings of sale shall,
before the execution of the deed, be approved by the court
in which the judgment was rendered, or the transcript has
been £led as aforesaid, as in cases of sale upon execution.
SEC. 538. If the sheriff shall be appointed receiver, he
and his sureties shall be liable, on his official bond, for the
faithful discharge of his duties as receiver, if any other
person shall be appointed receiver he shall give a
written undertaking in such sum as shall be prescribed by
the judge, with one or more sureties, to the effect that he
will faithfully discharge the duties of receiver, and he shall

also take‘ an oath to the same effect before acting as such.

receiver. The undertaking mentioned in this section, shall
be to the territory of Wyoming,’ and actions may be
prosecuted for a breach thereof, by any person interested, in
the same manner as upon a sherid"s oliicial bond.

Site. 539. The judge or referee, acting under the
provisions of this article, shall have power to continue his
proceedings, from time to time, until they shall be completed.

SEC. 540. The judge may in his discretion, order a
reference to a referee, agreed upon or appointed by him, to
report the evidence of the facts.

SEC. 541. If any person, party or witness, disobey an
order of the judge or referee, duly served, such person,
party or witness,’ may be punished by the judge as for a
contempt.

Sac. 542. The orders to judgment debtors and witnesses,
provided for in this chapter, shall be in writing and signed
by the judge making the same, and shall be served as a
summons in other cases. The judge shall reduce all his
orders to writing, which, together with a minute of his proceedings, signed by himself, shall be filed with the clerk of
the court of the county in which the judgment is rendered,
or the transcript of the justice filed, and the clerk shall enter
on his execution docket the time of filing the same.

8110. 543. The judge shall allow to clerks, sheriffs,
referees, receivers and witnesses, such compensation as is
allowed for like services in other cases, to be taxed as costs

in the case, and shall enforce by order the collection thereof
from such party or parties as ought to pay the same.

ARTICLE IV.

Executions Aga.z'nst the Person.

Sec. 544. An execution against the person of the
judgment debtor shall require the oliicer to arrest such
debtor, and commit him to the jailof the county until he pay
the judgment or be discharged according to law._

SEC. 545. An execution against the person of the
debtor may be issued upon any judgment for the payment
of money:

First, When the judgment debtor has removed or begun
to remove any of his,propcrty out of the jurisdiction of the
court, with intent to prevent the collection of the money
due on t.he judgment. .

Second, When he has property, rights in action, evidences of debt or some interest or stock in some corporation or
company which he fraudulently conceals with the like intent.

Third, When he has assigned or disposed of all or any
part of his property, or rights in action, or has converted
the same into money with intent to defraud his creditors, or
with the intent to prevent such property from being taken in
execution. ‘ '

Fourth, When he fraudulently contracted the debt or
incurred the obligation upon which the . judgment was
rendered.

Fzfth, When he was arrested on an order before judgment and has not been discharged as an insolvent debtor, or
the order has not been set aside as improperly made.

SEC. 546. An execution against the person of the debtor,
except as prescribed in the next succeeding section, can be
issued only when the same is allowed by the supreme court,
the district court or probate court, or any judge of either
upon being satisfied by the affidavit of the judgment creditor
or his attorney, and such other evidence as may be presented,
of the existence of one or more of the particulars mentioned
in the preceding section.

SEC. 547. In all cases in which the judgment debtor
was arrested before judgment, and has not been released from ‘
imprisonment by an application for relief, as an insolvent
debtor, and where the order for such arrest has not been
adjudged improper, an execution against the person of such
judgment debtor may issue of course.

SEC. 548. Any person taken in execution as aforesaid,
shall be discharged by delivering or setting of to the officers
serving the same, if issued from a court of record, real or
personal property, sufficient to satisfy the judgment and
costs, for which the writ is issued.

SEC. 549. The death of a person, under arrest in an
action, does not satisfy thejudgment; but an execution may
issue thereon as if no arrest had been made.

SEC. 550. If a person imprisoned under an order of
arrest, made before judgment, is not charged in execution,
within ten days after judgment, he shall be discharged from
such imprisonment.

SEC. 551. In cases of commitment under this article, or
upon arrest before or after judgment in civil cases,
the person imprisoned, in case of his inability to perform
the act or to endure the imprisonment, may be discharged
from imprisonment by the court or judge committing him, or
the court or judge thereof, in which the judgment was or
might be rendered, on such terms as may be just.

Executions for the delivery if real and personal Property.»

SE0. 552. If the execution be for the delivery of the
possession of real or personal property, it shall require the
otlicer to deliver the same, particularly describing the
property, to the party entitled thereto, and may, at the same
time, require the oiiicer to satisfy any costs or damages,
recovered in the same judgment out of the goods and chattels
of the party against whom it was rendered, and for the want
of such goods and chattels, then out of the lands and
tenements, and in this respect, it shall be deemed an execution against the property.

Snc. 553. When the judgment is not for the recovery

of money or real property, the same may be enforced by
attachment, by the court rendering judgment, upon motion
made, or by a rule of the court upon the defendant; but.
in either case, notice of the motion or a service of a copy of
the rule shall be made on the defendant, a reasonable time
before the order of attachment is made.

Judgment before Justices of the Peace.

SEC. 554. In all cases in which a judgment shall be
rendered by a justice of the peace, the party in whose favor
the judgment shall be rendered, may file a transcript of
such judgment, in the oilice of the clerk of the district court
of the county in which the judgment was rendered, and
thereupon, the clerk shall, on the day on "which the same
shall be filed, enter the case on the exe-t:u'tion docket,
‘together with the amount of the judgment and time of Sling
‘the transcript.

SEC. 555. Such judgment, if the transcript shall be
5£led'in term time, shallzhave a lien on the real estate of the
judgment debtor, from the day of filing ; if filed in vacation,
shall have a like lien ‘from the first day of the next term
of the court, in the same manner and to the same extent as if
the judgment had been ‘rendered in the district court.

7SEC. 556. Execution may be issued thereon, to the
sheriff, by the clerk of the court, in the same manner as if
the judgment had been taken in court, and the sheriff shall
execute and return the same as other executions, andin case of
sale of real estate, his proceedings shall be examined and
approved by the court as in other cases.

SEC. 557. The jus'tice of the peace, shall certify on the
transcript the amount, if any, paid on such judgment. The
costs of the transcript, and filing of the same, and the entry
of the case on the execution docket, shall be paid by the
party filing the same, and not taxed to the other party.

TITLE XXIII.

lliscellaneouc Provisz'ons.—0fer to Compromise.

SEC. 558. The defendant, in an action for the recovery

of money only, may, at any time before the trial, serve upon
the plaintiff or his attorney,'an offer in ‘writing, to allow
judgment to be taken against him for the sum specified
therein. If the plaintid accept the oflbr an-‘l give notice
thereof to the defendant or his attorney, within five days
after the offer was served, the'offer and an aiiidavit that the
notice ‘of acceptance was delivered in the time limited, may
be filed by the plaintiff, or the defendant may file the
acceptance "with a copy of the offer, verified byuilidavit‘;
and, in either case, the offer and acceptance she'll be noted
in the journal, -and judgment shall be rendered accordingly.
If the notice of acceptance be not given in the period limited,
the offer shall be deemed withdrawn, and shall ‘not be given
in evidence, or mentioned on the trial.‘ If "the plaintiff fails
to obtain judgment for more than was blfered by the defendant, he shall pay the defendant's costs from the time of the
offer. The making of an offer pursuant to the provisions
contained in this section, shall not be a cause for a continu=
ance of an action or a postponement of the trial.

Submitting (2 Controversy.

SEC. 559. Parties to a question, which might be the
subject of at civil action, may, without action, agree upon a
case containing the facts upon which the controversy depends,
and present a submission of the same to any court, which
would have jurisdiction if an action had been brought. But
it must appear by atlidavit, that the controversy is real, and
the proceedings in good faith to determine the rights of the
parties. The court shall thereupon hear and determine the
case, and render judgment as if an action were pending.

SEC. 560. The case, the submission and the judgment
shall constitute the record.

SEC. 561. The judgment shall be with costs, may be
enforced, and shall be subject to reversal, in the same
manner as if it had been rendered in an action,‘ unless
otherwise provided in the submission.

Ofer to Confess Judgment. A
830. 562. After an action for the recovery of. money

is brought, the defendant may offer in court to -confess
judgment for part of the amount claimed, or part of the
caitses involved in the action. Whereupon, if the plaintiff,
being present, refuse to accept such confes-sion of jmlguit-at
in full of his demands against the tlefendant in the action, or,
having had such notice that the oller would he made, of its
amount, and of the time of making it, as the court shall
deem reasonable, fail to attend, and on the trial do not
recover more than was so offered to be confessed. such
plaintiff shall pay all the costs of the defendant incurred
after the oiler. The oil‘-ershall not be deemed to be an admission of the cause of action, or the amount to which the
plaintiff is entitled, nor be given in evidence upon the trial.

SEC. 563. Before an action for the recovery ofmoney
is brought against any person, he may go into the court of
the county of his residence, or of that in which the person
having the cause of action resides, which would havejurisdiction of the action, and offer to confess judgment, in favor
of such person, for a specified sum, on such cause of action.
Whereupon, if such person, having had such notice that the
offer would be made, of its own amount, and of the time
and place of making it, as the court shall deem reasonable.
do not attend to accept the confusion, or attending, refuse
to accept ‘it, and should afterwards commence an action upon
such cause, and not recover more than the amount so offered
to he confessed, he shall pay all the costs of the action, and
on the trial thereof, the offer shall not be deemed to be an
admission of the cause of action, or amount to whichthe
plaintiff is entitled, nor be given in evidence.

Proceedings by Sureties.

830. 564. A surety may maintain an action against his
principal, to compel him to discharge the debt or liabilty, for
which the surety is bound, after the same has become due.

81:0. 565. A surety may maintain an action against
his principal, to obtain indemnity against the debt or
liability for which be is bound; before it is due, whenever
any of the,grounds exist, upon which, by the provisions of

this code, an order may be made for arrest and hail, or for
an attachment.

SEC. 566. In such action, the surety may obtain any of
the provisional remedies mentioned in title eight, upon the
ground and in the manner therein described,

Motions and orders.

Sac. 567. A motion is an application for an order,
addressed to the court, or a judge in vacation, by any party
to a suit or proceeding, or one interested therein.

Sac. 568. Several objects may be included in the same
motion, if they all grow out of, or are connected with the
action or proceeding in which it is made.

SEC. 569. Where notice of a motion is required, it
must be in writing, and shall state the names of the parties
to the action or proceeding in which it is made, the name of
the court or judge before whom it is to be made, the place
where, and the day on which it will be heard, the nature
and terms of the order or orders to be appliedrfor, and if
affidavits are to be used on the hearing, the notice shall state
that fact, and it shall be served a reasonable time before
the hearing.

SEC. 570. Notices of motions, mentioned in this
chapter, may by served by a sheriff, coroner or constable,
or by any disinterested person, and the return of any such
ofiicer, or affidavit of any such person, shall be proof of
service '; the service shall be on the party, or his attorney of
record if the said party or his attorney be resident within
the county in which the motion is made, and in case there
is more than one party adverse to such motion, service shall
be made upon each party or his attorney.

SEC. 571. The service of a notice shall be made as is
required by law for the service of a. summons, and when
served by an oliicer, he shall be entitled to like fees. The
service shall be on the party or his attorney of record, if
the said party or his attorney be resident within the county
in which the motion is made, and in case there is more than

one party adverse to such motion, service shall be made
upon each party or his attorney.

SEC. 572. Motions to strike pleadings and papers from
the files, may be made with or without notice, as the court
or judge shall direct.

SEC. 573. Every direction of a judge or court made,
or entered in writing, and not included in a judgment, is
an order.

SEC. 574. Orders made out of court shall be forthwith
entered by the clerk in the journal of the court, in the
same manner as orders made in term.

TITLE XXIV.

Error in civil cases.

SEC. 575. A judgment rendered, or final order made,
by a probate court, justice of the peace, or any other
tribunal, board or officer exercising judicial functions, and
inferior in jurisdiction to the district court, may be reversed,
vacated or modified by the district court.

SEC. 576. An order efTe;tEng a substantial right in an
action, when such order in cilcct determines the action and
preventsa judgment, and an order effecting a substantial right
made in a special proceeding, or upon a summary application
or an action after judgment, is a final order which may be
vacated, modified or reversed, as provided in this title. A
judgment rendered or final order made by the district court
or a judge thereof, may be reversed, vacated or modified by
the supreme court. I

SEC. 577. A judgment rendered or final order made by
any court, board or tribunal, mentioned in the preceding
sections, may be reversed, vacated or modified by the
supreme court, for errors appearing on the record ; but the
petition in error, in such case, can be filed only by leave of
the supreme court, or a judge thereof.

SEC. 578. The proceedings to obtain such reversal,
vacation or modification in the supreme court shall be by
petition, to be entitled, “Petition in error,” filed in the
supreme court, setting forth the errors complained of, and

thereupon a sumznons shall issue and be served, or‘publica.- ,

tion made, as in the commencement of an action. A service
on the attorney of record in the original case shall be
sutlieient. The summons shall notify the adverse party that
apetition in error has been filed in a certain case, naming it,
and shall be made returnable on or before the first day of
the term of the court, if issued in vacation; if issued in
term time, it shall be returnable on a day therein named; if
the last publication or service of the summons shall be made
ten days before the end of the term, the case shall stand for
hearing at the term.

SEC. 579. The summons mentioned in the last section,
shall, upon the written prceipe, of the plaintiff in error or
his attorney, be issued by the clerk of the court in which the
petition is filed, to the sheriff of any county in which the
defendant in error or his attorney of record may be, and if
the writ issue to a foreign county, the sheriifthereof may
return the same by mail to the clerk, and shall be entitled to
the same fees as if the same had been returnable to the
district court of the county in which such oiiicer resides.
The defendant in error, or his attorney, may waive in writing
the issuing or service of the summons.

SEC. 580. The plaintiff in error shall file with his
petition a transcript of the proceedings containing the final
judgment or order sought to be reversed, vacated or modified.

SEC. 581. Judges of probate courts, justices of the
peace, and other judicial tribunals having no clerk, and
clerks of every court of record, shall, upon request and
being paid the lawful fees therefor, furnish an authenticated
transcript of the proceedings, containing the judgment or
final order of said courts, to either of the parties to the
same, or to any person interested in procuring such
transcript. ° ,

Sec. 532. No proceeding to reverse, vacate or modify
any judgment or final orderirendehed in the probate court,
or district court, except as provided in the next section, and
the fourth subdivision of this section, shall operate to stay
execution, unless the clerk of the court in which the record

of said judgment or final order shall he, shall take a written
undertaking, to be executed on the part of the plaintif in
error to the adverse party, with one or more sutlicient sureties,
as follows:

First, When the judgment or final order sought to be
reversed, directs the payment of money, the written undertaking shall be in double the amount of the judgment or

_order, to the effect that the plaintiff in error will pay the

.condemnation money and costs, in case the judgment or
final order shall be ailirmed in whole or in part.

Second, When it directs the execution of a conveyance
or other instrument, the undertaking shall be in such sum as
may be prescribed by any court of record in this territory
or any judge thereof, to the effect that the plaintiif in error
will abide the judgement, if the same shall be atlirmed, and
pay the costs.

Third, When itdirects the sale or delivery of possession
of real property, the undertaking shall be in such sum as
may be prescribed by any court of record of this territory,
or any judge thereof, to the eifect that during the possession
of such property by the plaintilf in error, he will not commit
or suffer to be committed any waste thereon, and if the
judgment be affirmed he will pay the value of the use and
occupation of the property from the date of the undertaking
until thedelivery of the possession, pursuant to the judgment,
and all costs.

Fourth, When it directs the assignment or delivery of
documents, they may be placed in the custody of the clerk
of the court in which the judgment was rendered, to abide the
judgment of the appellate court, or the undertaking shall be
in such sum as may be prescribed as aforesaid, to abide the
judgment and pay costs, if the same shall be atlirmed.

SEC. 683. Instead of the undertaking prescribed in the
second subdivision of the last section, the conveyance or
other instrument may be executed and deposited with the
clerk of the court in which judgment was rendered or order
made, to abide the judgment of the appellate court.

81:0. 584. Before the written undertaking herein

mentioned in section live hundred and eighty-two, shall
operate to stay execution of the judgment or order, the execution of the undertaking and the sudiciency of the sureties,
must be approved by the court in which the judgment was
rendered or order made, or by the clerk thereof; and the
clerk shall indorse said approval, signed by himself, upon
the undertaking, and file the same in his oilice, for the
defendant in error.

SEC. 585. In an action arising on contract, for the

payment of money only, notwithstanding the execution of i

the undertaking in the last section mentioned to stay
proceedings, if the defendant in error give adequate security
to make restitution in case the judgment is reversed or
modified, he may, upon leave obtained from the court below,
or a judge thereof in vacation, pfoceed to enforce the judgment. Such security must be an undertaking executed to
the plaintiff in error by at least two suilicient sureties, to the
effect that if the judgment be reversed or modified, he will
make full restitution to the plaintiif in error of the money
by him received under the judgment.

SEC. 586. No proceeding for reversing, vacating or
modifying judgments or iinal orders, shall be commenced
unless, within three years after the rendition of the judgment

‘or making the iinal order complained of; or in case the

person entitled to such proceeding be an infant, a married
woman, a person of unsound mind, or imprisoned, within
three years as aforesaid, exclusive of the time of such
disability. Provided, That no proceeding for reversing,
vacating or modifying judgments or final orders made by
justices of the peace shall be commenced unless within three
months after the rendition or making of the judgment or
final order complained of. '
SEC. 587. No proceedings to reverse, vacate or modify
any judgment rendered or final order made by a justice of
the peace, shall operate as a stay of execution, unless the
clerk of the district court shall’ take a written undertaking
to the defendant, executed on the part of the plaintitf in
error, by one or more suflicient sureties, to the effect that

the plaintiff will pay all costs which have accrued or may
accrue on such proceedings in error, together with the
amount of any judgment that may be rendered against such
plaintiff in error, either on the further trial of the case,
after the judgment of the court below shall have been set
aside or reversed, or upon and after the aflirmance thereof
i.n the district court. The person entitled to such proceedings shall have the same time for prosecuting the same,
bet‘-.r_~.~. he is barred, as is provided in the last section, unless
the said judgment has been paid off or satisfied prior to the
commencement of such proceedings.

SEC. 588. Execution of the judgment or final order of
any judicial tribunal, other than those enumerated in this
title, may be stayed on sueh terms as may be prescribed by

the court or a judge thereof, in which the proceedings are
pending.

SEC. 589. When a judgment or final order shall be
reversed, either in whole or in part, in the supreme court,
the court reversing the same shall proceed. to render such
judgment as the court below should have rendered, or
remand the cause to the court below for such judgment;
and the court reversing such judgment or final order shall
not issue execution in causes that are removed before them
on error, on which they pronounced judgment as aforesaid,
but shall send a special mandate to the court below as the
case may require, to award execution thereupon ; and such
court to which such special mandate is sent, shall proceed in
such cases in the same manner as if such judgment or final
order had been rendered therein. And on motion, and good
cause shown, it may suspend any execution made returnable
before it by order of‘ the supreme court, in the same manner
as if such execution had been issued from its own court, but
such power shall not extend further than to- stay proceedings until the matter can be further heard by the supreme

court.

SEC. 590. When a judgment or final order is reversed,
the plaintiff in error shall recover his costs, and when

reversed in part, and afiirmed in part, costs shall be equally
divided between the parties.

SEC. 591. When a. judgment or final order shall be
udirmed in the supreme court, the said court shall also render
judgment against the plaintiff in error, for five per cent.
upon the amount due from him to the klefcndant in error.
unless the court shall enter upon its minutes, that there was
reasonable ground for the proceeding in error.

SEC. 592. A mistnlce, neglect or omission of the clerk
shall not be a ground of error, until the same has been
presented and acted upon in the court in which the mistake,
neglect or omission occurred.

SEC. 593. Rendering judgment before the action stood
for trial, according to the provisions of this code, shall be
deemed a clerical error.

SEC. 594. Writs of error shall be allowed to reverse,
vacate or modifyjndgmcnts or final orders in civil cases.

SEC. 595. If the judgment of a justice of the peace,
taken on error as herein provided, to the district court, be
atlirmed, it shall be t.hc duty of such court to renderjudgment against the plaintiil’ in error, for costs of the suit, and
to award execution therefor, and the court shall thereupon
order his clerk to certify its decision in the premises, to the
justice,‘ that the judgment affirmed may be enforced, as if
such proceedings in error had not been taken; or such
court may award execution to carry into effect the judgment
of such justice, in the same manner as if such judgment
had been rendered in the district court.

SEC. 596. When the proceedings ofajustico of the peace
are taken on error to the district court, in manner aforesaid,
and the judgment of such justice shall be reversed or set
aside, the court shall render judgment of reversal, and for
the costs that have accrued in obtaining such reversal in
favor of the plaintiffin error, and award execution therefor;
and the cause shall be retained by the court for trial and
hnnljudgment, as in cases of appeal.

Proceedings to Reverse, Vacate or Modify; Judgments and
orders in the Courts in which they are rendered.

SEC. 597. A district court shall have power to vacate
or modify its owri judgments or orders, after the term at
which such judgment ‘or order is made.

First, By granting a new trial of the cause, within the
time and in the manner prescribed in section three hundred
and fifteen.

Second, By a new trial granted in proceedings against

‘defendants, constructively summoned, as provided in section

seventy-six.

Third, For mistake, neglect or omission of the clerk, or
irregularity in obtaining a judgment or order.

Fourth, For fraud practiced by the successful party in

‘obtaining the judgment or order.

Fifth, For erroneous proceedings against an infant,
married woman, or person ‘of unsound mind, when the condition of such defendant does not appear in the record, nor
the error in the proceedings.

Sixth, For the death of one of the parties before the
judgment in the action.

Seventh, For unavoidable casualty or misfortune prev
venting the party from prosecuting or defending.

Eighth, For errors in a judgment shown by an infant
in twelve months after arriving at full age, as prescribed in
section four hundred and forty»

Ninth, For taking judgments upon warrants of attorney,
for more than was due to the plaintiif, when the defendant
was not summoned or otherwise legally notified of the time
and place of taking such judgment.

SEC. 598. The proceedings to vacate or modify the
judgment or order on the grounds mentioned in subdivisions
four, five, six, seven, eight and nine of the last preceding
section, shall be by petition, verihed by affidavit, setting
forth the judgment or order, the grounds to vacate or modify
it, and the defense to the action, if the party applying was
defendant. On such petition, a summons shall issue and be

served as in the commencement of an action; Provided,
Such summons shall not issue in any case in which there is
upon the minutes of the court, or among the files of the case,
a waiver of error by the party or his attorney, unless the
court or judge thereof, shall indorse upon the petition permission to issue such summons.

SEC. 599. The proceedings to correct mistakes or omissions of the clerk, or irregularity in obtaining a judgment
or order, shall be by motion, upon reasonable notice to the
adverse party or his attorneys in the action. The motion to
vacate a judgment because of its rendition before the action
regularly stood for trial, can he made only in the first three
days of the succeeding term.

SEC. 600. The court may first try and decide upon the
grounds to vacate or modify a judgment or order before
trying or deciding upon the validity of the defense or cause
of action.

SEC. 601. A judgment shall not be vacated on motion
or petition, until it is adjudged that there is a valid defense
to the action in which the judgment is rendered, or, if the
plaintid seek its vacation, that there is a valid cause of
action; and where a judgment is modified, all liens and
securities obtained under it, shall be preserved to the
modihed judgment.

SEC. 602. .The party seeking to vacate or modify a

‘ judgment or order, may obtain an injunction suspending

proceedings on the whole or a part thereof, which injunction
may be granted by the court or any judge thereof, upon its
being rendered probable, by atiidavit or by exhibition of the
record, that the party is entitled to have such judgment or
order vacated or modified.

Site. 603. When the judgment was rendered before the
action stood for trial, the suspension may be granted as
provided in the last section, although no valid defense to the
action is shown; and the court shall make such orders
concerning the executions to be issued on the judgment as
shall ‘give to the defendant the same rights of delay he

would have bad if the jutlgment had been rendered at the
proper time.

SEC. 604. Proccezlings to vacate or modify ajurlgment
or order for the causes mentioned in subdivisiors four, five
and sevc", of section {Eve hundreal and ninety-seven, must
be commcnccl witiiiri two years after the ju<l_=_;:nent was
rc:‘.<lere:l, or oralcr ma:ic, unless the party cutitlecl thereto,
be an infant, marrievl woman or person of unsounvl mind,
and then within two years after the removal of such disability. Proceeding; for the causes mentioned in sulnlivisious
three and six of the same section, shall be within three
years, and subdivision nine within one year after the
defendant has -otice of thejmlgment.

SEC. 60:3. The provisions of this title subsequent to
section five llul;tll'(r(l and ninct_v-six shall apply to the
supreme c:'uI't and probate court, so far as the same-may be
applicable to the juilgziients or final orders of such courts.
The parties shall be li:nite.,l to the some time in which to
commence pr«)ccc.li:23s, and in estiinating time, the probate
court shall, for this p:‘.1‘p’?:.O be considered as h:”)i'.liI?'g, in
each year, three terms, of four months each, the first commeuciug on the first tlay of January of each year.

SEC. (306. C-mes pending in appellate courts on writs
of error or otherwise, when this code takes effect, shall be
conaluetml to llE‘.£‘.l ju.lgmo:it, as if it llfttl not been adopted,
and the lions of ju(i.3’I11CIltS and decrees rendered when it
takes eff'.‘:ct shall be prerservcsl.

TITLE XXV.

C'os:‘s.

SEC. 607. In all cases in which the plaintiH' is 9. nonresident of the county in which the action is to be brought.
before commencing such action, the plaintiff must furnish a.
sufiicient security for the costs. The surety must be a
resident of the county where the action is to be brought,
and approved by the clerk. His obligation shall. be complete, simply by inqlorsing the summons, or'signing his name

on the complaint, as security for costs. He shall be bound
for the payment of all costs, which may be adjudged against
the plaintiff in the court in which the action is brought, or
any other to which it may be carried, and for costs of the
plaintiffs witnesses, whether the plaintiff obtain judgment
or not.

Sec. 608. An action in which security for costs is
required by the last section, and has not been given, shall
be dismissed on motion and notice by the defendant at any
proper time beforejudgtiient, unless, in a reasonable time to
be allowed by the court, such security for costs be given.

SEC. 609'. If the plaintiff in an action, after its commencement, become a non-resident of the county in which it‘
is brought, he shall give security for costs in the manner and
under the restrictions provided in the two preceding sections.

SEC. 610. In an action in which security for costs has
been given, the defendant may, at any time before judgment, I
after reasonable notice to the plaintiff, move the court for
additional security on the part of the plaintiff; and if, on
such motion, the court be satisfied that the security has
removed from this territory, or is not suiiieient, the action
may be dismissed, unless, in a reasonable time, to be fixed by
the court, suilicient security be given by the plaint-iii‘.

SEC. 611. After final judgment has been rendered in an
action in which security for costs has been given as required
by this title, the court, on motion of the defendant, or any
other person having a right to such costs, or any part thereof,
after ten days notice of such motion, may enter up judgment in the name of the defendant, or his legal representatives, against the surety for costs, his executors or
administrators, for the amount of the costs adjudged against
the pla.inti1"f, or so much thereof as may be unpaid. Execution may be issued on such judgment, as in other cases, for
the use and benefit of the persons entitled to such costs.

SEC. 61“. If any informer, under a penal statute, to
whom the penalty, or any part thereof, if recovered, is given,
shall dismiss his suit or prosecution, or fail in the same. he
shall pay all costs accruing on such suit or prosecution,

unless he be an odicer whose duty it is to commence the
same.

SEC. 613. When defendants disclaim having any title
or interest, or land or other property, the subject matter of
the action, they shall recover their costs, unless for special
reasons the court decide otherwise.

SEC. 614. Unless otherwise provided by statute, the
costs of motions, continuances, amendments and the like,
shall be taxed and paid as the court in its discretion

may direct.

SEC. 615. Where it is not otherwise provided by this
and other statutes, costs shall be allowed of course to the
plaintiff, upon a judgment in his favor, in actions for the
recovery of money only, or for the recovery of specific real
or personal property.

SEC. 616. If it shall appear that a justice of the
peace has jurisdiction of an action, and the same has been
brought in any other court, the plaintiff shall not recover
costs; and in all actions for libel, slander, malicious prosecution, assault and battery, false imprisonment, criminal
conversation, seduction, actions for nuisance, or against a
justice of the peacefor misconduct in oiiiee, if the damages
assessed be under five dollars, the plaintiff shall not recover
any costs.

SEC. 617. Costs shall be allowed of course to any
defendant upon a judgment in his favor in the actions
mentioned in the last two sections.

SEC. 618. In other actions the court may award and
tax costs, and apportion the same between the parties on
the same or adverse sides, as in its discretion it may think
right and equitable.

SEC. 619. When several actions are brought on one
bill of exchange, promissory note or other obligation or
instrument in writing, against several parties who might
have been joined as defendants in the same action, as
allowed by section forty-three of this code, no costs shall be
recovered by the plaintid‘ in more than one of such actions,
if the parties proceeded against in the other actions were at

the commencement of the previous action, openly within the

territory.
SEC. 620. When a summons is issued to another county

than that in which the action or proceeding is pending, it
may be returned by mail, and the sheriff shall be entitled
to the same fees as if the summons had issued in the county

of which he is sheriff.

TITLE XXVI.

Actions Concerning Real Property.

SEC. 621. An action may be brought by any person in
possession, by himself or tenant, of real property, against
any person who claims an estate, or interest therein, adverse
to him, for the purpose of determining such adverse estate,
or interest. .

SEO. 6'22. In an action for the recovery of real
property, it shall be sufiicient if the plaintiff state, in his
petition that he has a legal or equitable estate therein, and
is entitled to the possession thereof, describing the same, as
required by section one hundred and thirty-six, and that the
defendant unlawfully keeps him out of the possession. It
shall not be necessary to state how the plaintiiT’s estate or
ownership is derived.

SEC. 623. It shall be suiiicient, in such action, if the
defendant, in his answer, deny generally, the title alleged
in the petition, or that he withholds the possession, as the
case may be ; but if he deny the title of the plaintiff, possession by the defendant shall be taken as admitted. Where
he does not defend for the whole premises, the answer shall
describe the particular part for which defense is made.

SEC. 624. In an action by a tenant in common of real
property, against a co-tenant, the plaintiff must, in addition I
to what is required in section six hundred and twenty-two,
state in his petition that the defendant either denied the
plaintiE’s right, or did some act amounting to such denial.

SEO. 625. In an action for the recovery of real
property, where the plaintiff showsa right to recover at the

time the action was commenced, but it appears that his
right has terminated during the pcndency of the action, the
verdict and juzlgmciit must be according to the fact, and the
plaintiff may recover forthwith, holding the property.

SEC. 626. The parties in an action for the recovery of
property, may avail themselves, if entitled thereto, of the
relief of the statutes in force for the relief of occupying
claimants of land.

SEC. 627. If a guardian, tenant for life or years, joint
tenant, or tenant in common, of real property, commit
waste thereon, he is liable to pay three times the damages
which have resulted from such waste, U the person who is
entitled to sue therefor.

SEC. 698. Judgnicnt of forfeiture and conviction may
be rendered against the defendant, whenever the amount of
damages, so recovered, is more than two-thirds the value of
the interest such defendant has in the property wasted, and
when the action is lzrought by the person entitled to tho
reversion.

SEC. 629. Any person whose duty it is to prevent
waste, and who has not used reasonable care and diligence to
prevent it, is deemed to have cornnii-tted it.

SEC. 630. For wilful trespass, injuring any timber,
tree or shrub on the land of another, or in the street or
highway in front of another's cultivated ground, yard or
town lot, or on the public grounds cf any town, or any land
held by this territory for any purpose whatever, the
trespasscr shall pay treble dz-.mage.~;, at the suit of any
person entitled to protect or enjoy the property aforesaid.

SEC. 631. Nothing herein contained authorizes the
recovery of more than the just value of the timber taken
from any uncultivated wood land for the repair of a public
highway or bridge in its immediate neighborhood.

SEC. 632. The owner of an estate in remainder or
reversion, may maintain either of the aforesaid actions for
injuries done to the inheritance, notwithstanding any intervcning estate for life or years.

SEC. 633. An-heir, whether aminor or of full age, may

maintain these actions for injuries done in the time of his
ancestors as well as in his own time, unless barred by the
statutes of limitations.

SEC. (334. Where lands or tenements are sold by virtue
of an execution, the purchaser at such sale may maintain
his action against any person, for either of the causes above
mentioned, occurring or existing after his purchase.

SEC. 635. This provision is not intended to prevent the
person who occupies the lands, in the meantime, from using
them in the ordinary course of husbandry, or from using
timber for‘ the purpose of making suitable repairs thereon.

SEC. 636. But if, for this purpose, be employ timber
vastly superior to that required for the occason, he will be
deemed to have committed waste, and will be liable accordingly.
0c::21p3,/£12 g Ciafmants.

SEC. 637. In all cases. any occupying claimants, being
in quiet possession of any lands or tenements for which
such person can show a plain and connected title, in law or

,equity, derived from the records of some public olliee; or
being in quiet possession of, and holding the same by deed,
devise, descent, contract, bond or agreement, from and under
any person claiming title, as aforesaid, derived from the
records of seine public office, or by deed duly authenticated
and recorded; or being in quiet possession and holding the
same under sale on execution or order of sale, against any
person claiming title as aforesaid, derived from the records
of some public oilice, or by deed duly authenticated and
recorded; or being in possession of and holding any land
under any sale for taxes, authorized by the laws of this
territory, or any persons who have made a bonajide settlement and improvement which he, she or they still occupy,
upon any of the Indian lands lying in this territory ; or at y
person in the quiet possession of any land claiming title
thereto, and holding the same under a sale and conveyance
made by executors, administrators or guardians, or by any
other person or persons, in pursuance of any order of court

or decree in chancery, when lands are or have been directed
to be sold, and the purchaser or purchasers thereof have
obtained title to and possession of the same without any
fraud or collusion on his, her or their part, shall not be
evicted or turned out of possession by any person or persons
who shall set up and prove an adverse and better title to
said lands, until said occupying claimant, his, her or their
heirs, shall be paid the full value of all lasting and valuable
improvements made on said land, by such occupying
claimant, or by the person or persons under whom he, she
or they may hold the same, previous to receiving actual
notice by the commencement of suit on each adverse claim
by which eviction may be effected, unless such occupying
claimant shall refuse to pay the person so setting up and
proving an adverse and better title, the value of the land
without the improvements made thereon, as aforesaid, upon
the demand of the successful claimant, or his heirs, as
hereinafter provided: Provided, That this article shall not
apply to persons occupying and claiming any lands granted
to this territory, or granted to, or purchased by any
company to aid in the construction of any works of internal,
improvement in this territory.

SEC. 638. /The title by which the successful claimant
succeeds against theioccupying claimant, in all cases of lands
sold for taxes, by virtue of any of the laws of this territory,
shall be considered an adverse and better title, under the
provisions of this article, whether it be the title under which
the taxes were due, and for which said land was sold, or any
other title or claim whatever; and the occupying claimant
holding possession of lands sold for taxes, as aforesaid,
having the deed of a collector of taxes or a county treasurer,
or shall claim under the person or persons who hold such
deed or certificate, or any other title or claim whatever,
shall be considered as having sufficient title to said land to
demand the ,V*llll8 of improvements under the provisions of
this title.

SEC. 639. The court rendering judgment in any case
provided for by this title, against the occupying claimant,

shall, at the request of either party, cause a journal entry
thereof to be made, and thereupon a jury of twelve men
shall be impaneled as in other cases, whose duty it shall be
immediately to proceed to view the premises in question, and
then and there, an oath or aflirmation having been administered to them by the clerk of the court before leaving the
court room, proceed to assess the value of all lasting and
valuable improvements made as aforesaid on the lands in
question, previous to the party receiving actual notice as
aforesaid of such adverse claim; and shall also assess the
damages, if any, which said land may have sustained by
waste, together with the net annual value of the rents and
profits which the occupying claimant" may have received
from the same, after having received notice of the plaintiffs
title, hy service of a summons, and deduct the amount
thereof from the estimated value of such lasting and
valuable improvements ; and said jury shall also assess the
value of the land in question, at the time of rendering
judgment as aforesaid, without the improvements made
thereon, or damages sustained by waste, as aforesaid.
jSsc. 640. Instead of the jury provided for in the
preceding section, the parties may agree upon any number
of persons less than twelve, who having been sworn as .hereinbefore provided, shall proceed to assess the value of such
improvements and lands, and whose finding shall be as
binding on all parties as if the same was found. by ajury of
twelve men, as hereinbeforc provided.
SEC. 641. The jury shall sign and seal their respective
assessments and valuations aforesaid, and return their

findings into the court in which they were impanelled.

without unreasonable delay, and if either party shall think
himself or herself aggrieved, by any such assessmentcr valuation aforesaid, he or she may apply to the court, at the term
to which the proceedings are returned,and said court may, upon
good cause shown, set aside such assessment or valuation,
and order a new valuation, and appoint another jury, as
hereinbefore provided, who shall proceed in the same manner
aa hereinbefore directed.

SEC. 642. If the jurors shall report a sum in favor of
the plaintiff or plaintiffs in said action, for the recovery of
real property on the assessment and valuation of the valuable
and lasting improvements, and the assessment of damages
for waste, and the net annual value of the rents and profits,
the court shall render a judgment therefor without pleadings,
and issue execution thereon as in other cases; or if no
excess be reported in favor of said plaintiif or plaintidit then,
and in either case the said plaintif or plaintiffs shall be
thereby barred from having or maintaining any action for
mesne profits.

SEC. 643. If the jurors shall report a sum in favor of
the occupying claimant or claimants, on the assessment and
valuation of the valuable and lasting improvements, deducting
therefrom the damages, if any, sustained by waste, with the
net annual value of rents and profits which the defendant or
defendants may have received after commencement of
the action of ejectment aforesaid, the successful claimant or
his heirs, they being minors, may, at his or her or their
election, either demand of the occupying claimant the value
of the land without improvements, so as aforesaid assessed,
and tender a deed of the land in question to the occupying
claiment, or he, she, or they may pay the occupying claimant the sum so allowed by the jurors in his favor, within such
reasonable time as the court shall allow.

SEC. 644. If the successful claimant, his heirs, or
the guardian of such heirs, they being minors, shall elect
to pay, and do pay to the occupying claimant, the sum so
reported in his favor by the jurors, within such reasonable
time as the court may have allowed for the payment thereof,
then a writ of possession shall issue in favor of said
successful claimant, his heirs, or the guardians of such heirs.

SEC. 645. If the successful claimant, his heirs, or the
guardians of said heirs, they being minors, shall elect to
receive the value without improvements so as aforesaid
assessed, to be paid by the occupying claimant within such
reasonable time as the court may allow, and shall tender a
general warranty deed of the land in question, conveying

such adverse or better title within said time allowed by the
court for the payment of the money in this section mentioned,
and the occupying claimant shall refuse or neglect to pay
said money (the value of the lands without the improvements) to the successful claimant, his heirs or their guardians,
within the time limited as aforesaid, then a writ of possession
shall be issued in favor of said successful claimant, his heirs
or their guardians; Provided, That in no case shall the
successful claimant be entitled to a writ of possession until
he has paid the occupying claimant, or his heirs, two-thirds
the value of the improvements as reported by the jury.

SEC. 646. The occupying claimant or his heir shall, in
no case be evicted from the possession of such land, unless,
as is provided in the two preceding sections, where an
application is made for the value of improvements under this
law; and in all cases where the occupying claimant or
claimants, or his or their heirs, shall have paid into court
the value of the lands in question without improvements,
within the timeiallowed by the court, (when an election has
been made by the successful claimant or claimants, his or
their heirs or guardians as aforesaid, to surrender any tract
of land under the provisions of this act,) such occupant or
his heirs may, at any time after such payment shall have
been made, iile his, her or their petition in the court where
such judgment of eviction was obtained, and obtain a decree
for the title of such land, if the same has not been previously
conveyed to such occupant as aforesaid.

SEC. 647. The plaintiff shall be entitled to an execution
for the possession of his property, in accordance with the
provisions of this article, but not otherwise. '

Site. 648. Whenever any land sold by an executor,
administrator, guardian, sheriff or commissioner of court, is
afterwards recovered in the proper action by any person
originally liable, or in whose hands the land would be liable
to pay the demand or judgment for which, or for whose
benefit the land was sold, or any one claiming under such
person, the plainti&' shall not be entitled to the possession of
the land until he has refunded the purchase money, with

interest, deducting therefrom the value of the use, rents and

profits, and injury done by waste and cultivation, to be
assessed under the provisions of this article.

Actions on oficial Seeur2.'tz'ea.

SEC. 649. When an officer, executor or administrator
within this territory, by misconduct or neglect of duty,
forfeits his bond or renders his sureties liable, any person
injured thereby or who is by law, entitled to the benefit of
the security, may bring an action thereon in his own name,
against the oflicer, executor or administrator and his sureties, to recover the amount to which he may be entitled by
reason of the delinquency. The action may be instituted
and proceeded in a certified copy of the bond, which copy
shall be furnished by the person holding the original thereof.

SEC. 650. A judgment in favor of a party for one
delinquency, does not preclude the same, or another party
from an action on the same securety for anotherdelinquency.

Proceedings on llfandamus.

SEC. 651. The writ of mandamus may be issued to any
inferior tribunal, corporation, board or person, to compel the
performance. of an act which the law specially enjoins as a
duty resulting from an office, trust or station. But, though
it may require an inferior tribunal to exercise its judgment,
or proceed to the discharge of any of its functions, it cannot
control judicial discretion.

SEC. 652. This writ may not be issued in any case
where there is a plain and adequate remedy in the ordinary
course of the law; It may issue on the information of the
party beneficially interested.

A SEC. 653. The writ is either alternative or peremtory.
The alternative Writ must state ccncisely the facts showing
the obligation of the defendant to perform the act, and his
omission to perform it, andcommand him that immediately
upon receipt of the writ, or at some other specified time, he
‘do the act required to be performed or show cause before
the court whence the writ issued, at a specified time and

place, why he has not done so; and that he then and there
return the writ with his certificate of having done as he is
commanded. The peremptory writ must be in a similar
form, except that the words requiring the defendant to
show cause why he has not done as commanded, must be
omitted.

SEC. 65-}. When the right to require the performance
of the act is clear, and it is apparent that no valid excuse
can be given for not performing it, a peremptory mandamus
may be allowed in the first instance; in all other cases the
alternative writ must be first issued.

SEC. 655. The motion for the writ must be made upon ‘
afiidavit, and the court may require a notice of the application to be given to the adverse party, or may grant an order
to show cause why it should not be allowed, or may grant
the writ without notice.

SEC. 656. The allowance of the writ must be indorsed
thereon, signed by the judge of the court granting it, and
the writ must be served personally upon the defendant; if
the defendant, personally served, neglect to return the same,
he shall he proceeded against as for a contempt.

SEC. 657. (,’;9n the return day of the alternative writ, or
such further day as the court may allow, the party on
whom the writ shall have been served, may show cause by
answer made in the same manner as an answer to a petition
in a civil action.

See. 658. If no answer be made, a peremptory mandamus must be allowed against the defendant; if answer be
made containing new matter, the same shall not, in any
respect, conclude the plaintiff, who may, on the trial or other
proceeding, avail himself of any valid objections to sumcibncy, or may countervail it by proof, either in direct.
denial or by way of avoidance.

SEC. 659. No other pleading or written allegation is
allowed than the writ and answer; these are the pleadings
in the case, and have the same effect, and are to be construed
and may be amended in the same manner as pleadings in a
civil action; and the issues thereby joined must be tried,

and the further proceedings thereon had, in the same
manner as in a civil action.

SEC. 660. If judgment be given for the plaintif, he
shall recover the damages which he shall have sustained, to
be ascertained by the court or jury, or by referees, as in a
civil action, and costs; and a peremptory mandamus shall,
also, be granted to him without delay.

SEC. 661. A recovery of damages by virtue of this
title, against a party who shall have made a return to a writ
of mandamus, is a bar to any other action against the same
party for. the making of such return.

SEC. 662. Whenever a peremptory mandamus is
directed to any public officer, body or board, commanding
the performance of any public duty, specially enjoined by
law, if it appear to the court that such oflicer or any member
of such body or board, has, without just excuse, refused or
neglected to perform the duty so enjoined, the court may
impose a fine, not exceeding five hundred dollars, upon every
such oliicer or member of such body or board. Such fine,
when collected, shall be paid into the treasury of the county
where the duty ought to have been performed; and the
payment thereof is a bar to an action for any penalty
incurred by such omcer or member of such body or board,
by reason of his refusal or neglect to perform the duty
so enjoined.

TITLE AXXVII.
Partition.

SEC. 663. When the object of the action is to effect a
partition of real property among several joint owners, the

petition must describe the property and the respective

interests of the several owners thereof if known.

SEO. 664. If the number of shares or interests is known,
but the owners thereof are unknown, or if there are or are
supposed to be, any interests which are unknown, contingent
or doubtful, these facts must be set forth in the petition with
reasonable certainty.

SEC. 665. Creditors having a speclhc or general lien
upon all or any portion of the property may or may not be
made parties at the option of the plaintiff.

Sac. 666. If the lien‘ is upon one or more undivided
interests of any of the parties it shall, after partition or‘
sale,.remain a charge upon those particular interests or the
proceeds thereof. But the due proportion of costs is a
charge upon those interests paramount to all other liens. V

SEC. 667. The answers of the defendants must state
among other things, the amount and nature of their respective interests. They may deny the interests of any of the
plaintiffs, and by supplemental pleading, if necessary, may
deny the interests of any of the other defendants.

SEC. 668. When there are two or more plaintid’s they
may reply jointly, or either of them may reply to any or
all the answers of the defendants»

SEC. 669. Issues may, thereupon, be joined and tried
between any of the contesting parties, the question of costs‘
on such issues being regulated between the contestants
agreeably to the principles applicable to other cases.

SEC. 670. Each of the parties appearing, whether as
plaintif or defendant, must exhibit his documentary proof
of title, if he has any, and must file the same, or copies
thereof, with the clerk.

Site. 671. If the statements in the petitions and answers
are not contradicted in the manner aforesaid, or by the
documentary proof exhibited as above required, they shall
be taken as true.

SEC. 672. After all the shares and interests of the
parties have been settled in any of the methods aforesaid,
judgment shall be rendered confirming those shares and

_ interests, and directing partition to be made accordingly.

SEC. 673. Upon entering such judgment, the court
shall appoint referees to make partition into the requisite
number of shares.

SEC. 674. For good and sufiicient reasons appearing to
the court, the referees may be directed to allot particular
portions of the land to particular individuals. In other

cases, the shares must be made as nearly as possible of

equal value.

SEC. 675. If it appears to the referees that partition
cannot be made without great prejudice to the owners, they
shall so report to the court.

SEC. 676. I satisfied with such report, the court shall
cause an order to be entered, directing the referees to sell
the premises so situated, and shall also fix the terms of
the sale.

SEC. 677. Before proceeding to sell, the referees shall
each give security, to be approved by the court or judge
thereof, conditioned for the faithful discharge of his duties.
At any time thereafter, the court may require further and
better security.

SEC. 678. The same notice of sale shall be given as
when lands are sold on cxecution by the sherid, and the
sale shall be conducted in like manner.

SE6‘. 679. After completing said sale, the referees
must report their proceedings to the court with a description
of the diderent parcels of land sold to each purchaser, and
the price bid therefor, which report shall be filed with
the clerk. ' _

SEC. .680. After making the order of sale as aforesaid,
the court shall direct the clerk to report whether there be
any general incumbrance by mortgage, judgment or otherwise, upon any portion of the property.

SEC. 681. If deemed advisable, the court may appoint
a referee to inquire into the nature and amount of incumbrances, and report accordingly. From that report an
appeal lies to the'court. \ '

SEC. 682. The referee shall give the parties interested
at least five days notice of the time and place when he will
receive proof of the amount of such incumbrances.

SEC. 683. In taking such proof he may receive, with
other evidence, the affidavit of the parties interested.

SEC. 684. If any ineumbrance be ascertained to exist,
the proceeds of the sale of that portion, after the payment

of costs, or so much thereof as necessary, shall if the
owner consent, be paid over to the incumbrancer.

SEC. 685. If the owner object to the paymert of such
incumbrance, the money shall be retained or invested by
order of the court to‘: await final action in relation to its
disposition, and notice thereof shall be forthwith given to
the incumhrancer, unless he has already been made a party.

SEC. 686. The court may direct an issue to be made]
up between the incumhrancer and owner, which issue, when
determined, shall be decisive of their respective rights.

SEC. 687. If an estate for life or years he found to
exist as an incumbrance upon any part of said property,
and if the parties connot agree upon the sum in gross
which they will consider an equivalent for such an estate.
the court shall direct the avails of the incumbered property
to be invested, and the proceeds to be paid to the incumbraneer during the existence of the incumbrance.

SEC. 688. The proceedings in relation to the incumbrances shall not delay the dhtribution of the proceeds of
other shares in respect to which no dilliculties exist.

SEC. 689. The court, in its discretion, may require all
or any of the parties, before they receive the moneys
arising from any sale authorized in this title, to give satisfactory security to refund such moneys and interest, in case it
afterwards appears that such parties were not entitled
thereto.

SEC. 690. If the sale aforesaid be approved and
confirmed by the court, an order shall he entered, directing
the referees,_or any two of them, to execute conveyances
pursuant to such sales. But no conveyance can be made
until all the money is paid, without receiving from the
purchaser a mortgage of the land so sold or other equivalent
security.

SEC. 691. Such conveyances so executed, being
recorded in the county where the premises are situate, shall
be valid against all subsequent purchasers, and also against
all persons interested at the time, who were made parties to
the proceedings in the mode pointed out by law.

SEC. 692. If the owner of any share thus sold has a
husband or wife living, and if such husband and wife do not
agree as to the disposition that shall be made of the proceeds
of such sale, the court must direct it to be invested in real
estate under the supervision of such person as it may
appoint, taking the title in the name of the owner of the
share sold as aforesaid.

SEC. 693. If the sales are disapproved, the money paid
and the securities given must be returned to the persons
respectively entitled thereto.

SEC. 694. When partition is deemed proper, the referees
must mark out the shares by visible monuments, and may
employ a competent surveyor and the necessary assistants
to aid them.

SEC. 695. The report of the referees must be in writing,
signed by at least two of them. It must describe the
respective shares with reasonable particularity, and be
accompanied by a plat of the premises.

SEC. 696. Unless the slhares are allotted to their
respective owners by the referees as hereinbefore contemplated, the clerk shall number the shares anl then draw the
names of the future owners by lot.

SEC, 697. When partition can be conveniently made of

part of the premises, but not of all, one portion may be

partitioned and the other sold as hereinafter provided.

SEC; 698. On good cause shown, the report may be set
aside, and the matter again referred to the same or other
referees.

SEC, 699. Upon the report of the referees being
confirmed, judgment thereon shall be rendered that the
partition be firm and edectual forever.

Sac. 700. When all the parties in interest have been
duly notified to appear and answer, either by the service of
the petition and notice, or by the publication prescribed by
law, any of the proceedings above authorized shall be
binding and conclusive upon them all. If only a portion of

such parties be served, they only shall be bound by such
proceedings.

SEC. 701. The judgment of partition shall be presumptive evidence of title in all cases, and as between the
parties themselves it is conclusive evidence thereof, subject
however, to be defeated by proof of a title paramount to, or
independent of, that under which the parties held as joint
tenants, or tenants in common.

SEC. 702. All the costs of the proceedings in partition
shall be paid in the Erst instance by the plaintiffs, but
eventually by all the parties in proportion to their interests,
except those costs which are created by contests above
provided for.

SEC. 703. Any person claiming to hold an incumbrance
upon any portion of the property involved in the suit, may,
in default of the owner, appear and act as his representative
in any of the proceedings under this title.

SEC. 704. Persons havi¥ contingent interests in such‘
property may be made parties to the proceedings, and the
proceeds of the property so situated (or the property itself
in case of partition), shall be subject to the order of the
court until the right becomes fully vested.

SEC. 705. The ascertained share of any absent owner
shall be retained, or the proceeds invested for his benefit.

TITLE XXVIII.

Ccntempts.

SEC. 706. Every court of record shall have power to
punish by fine and imprisonment, or by either, as for crimnial
contempt, persons guilty of any of the following acts :

First, Disorderly, contemptuous or insolent behavior
towards the court, or any of its officers, in its presence.

Second, Any breach of the peace, noise, or other disturbance tending to interrupt its proceedings. .

Third, Wilful disobedience of, or resistance wilfully
ofered to any lawful process or order of said courts.

Fourth, Any wilful attempt to obstruct the proceedings,
or hinder the due administration of justice in any suit,

proceedings or process pending before the courts.

Fqfth, The contumacious and unlawful refusal of any
person to be sworn or aflirmed as a witness, and when sworn
or atlirmed, the refusal to answer any legal and proper
interrogatory and for no other.

SEC. 707. Contempts committed in the presence of the
court may be punished summarily; in other cases the party
upon b(‘l-‘lg brought before the court, shall be notified of the
accusation against him, and have a reasonable time to make
his defense.

SEC. 708. Persons punished for contempt under the
preceding provisions, shall nevertheless be liable to indictment, if such contempt shall amount to an indictable offense;
but the court before which the conviction shall be had, may,
in determining the punishment, take into consideration the
punishment before inflicted, in mitigation of the sentence.
In cases of contempt, the pueishment shall be by fine or
imprisonment, or both; but no fine shall exceed the sum of
five hundred dollars, and no imprisonment shall exceed the
period of five days, except when the contempt consists in
the' omission to perform an act which is yet in the power of
the person to perform, in which case he may be imprisoned
until he has performed it.

TITLE xxfx.

Appeals from the District to the Supreme Court.

SEC. 709. Appeals hereafter to be tried must be taken
within one month from the time judgment is rendered, by
service of notice, in writing, on the adverse party, his agent
or attorney, and also the clerk of the court in which the
proceedings were bad, stating the appeal from the same, or
some specilic'part thereof.

SEC. 710.~ Upon receiving the notice and the payment
of the legal fees therefor, by the appellant, the clerk shall
forthwith transmit to the supreme court, a transcript of the
record in the cause, or so much thereof as the appellant
directs, to which shall be appended the notice of the appeal
and the written directions of the appellant applying therefor.

SEC. 711. All proper entries made by the clerk, and
all papers pertaining to the cause and liled therein, (except
subpoenas, depositions, and other papers that are used as
mere evidence), are to be deemed parts of the record.
But the transcript of motions, ailidavits and other papers,
when they relate to collateral matters, should not be certified,
unless by directions of the appellant. If so certified, when
not material to the determination of the appeal, the court
may direct the person blamahle therewith to pay the costs
thereof.

SEC. 712. If the other co-parties refuse to join, they are
precluded from any benefits arising from the appeal, unless
from the necessity of the case; but should they fail to
appear, and refuse to join in the appeal, they shall be liable
for their share of the costs already made, only.

SEC. 713. The death of any or all the parties shall
not abate the suit, but the names of the proper persons
being substituted, the cause may proceed, but to promote
the ends of justice, the court may grant a continuance in
such cases.

SEC. 714. An appeal from the judgment of the court,
shall be a stay of execution, except to any portion of the
judgment not appealed from.

SEC. 715. If execution has been issued before such
appeal taken, the clerk shall recall it. —

SEC. 716. Property levied upon and not sold at the
time of such recall, shall be returned forthwith by the sheriff
to the judgment debtor.

SEC. 717. The court may reverse or_aliirm the judgment, or render such judgment as the district court should
have done. .

SEC‘. 718. If the judgment be aflirmed, the court shall
award the appellee such damages as they may deem just, not
exceeding twelve per cent. per annum.

SEC. 719. If the court affirm the judgment, it may
remand the cause to the district court to be carried into
eiect, or it may issue the necessary process for that purpose
to the sheriff of the proper county.

S1-:c. 720. If by the determination of the cause, the
appellant is entitled to a restoration of money or property
that was taken from him under the judgment below, then

‘either court may award a writ of restoration or execution

for the purpose of restoring the property or the value
thereof.

Sec. 721. Property acquired by a bond-jide purchaser
under a judgment reversed, shall not be cheated by such
reversal.

SEC. 722. When judgment is rendered against the
appellant, the court shall, on motion, render judgment
against both appellant and his sureties for the amount of
the judgment, damages and costs, in case such damages can
be ascertained by the court without trial.

SEC. 723. No appeal shall be allowed as provided in
this title until there is filed by or on behalf of the party
applying therefor, an undertaking with two or more good and
suflicient sureties conditioned as follows:

First, When the appeal is from a judgment for the
"payment of money, the undertaking shall be double the
amount of the judgment, and for the payment of said
amount and all costs and damages if such judgment
be not reversed. In all other cases the undertaking shall
be as fixed by the court from which the appeal is taken, or
by any judge of the supreme court. Also, an aiiidavit of
the party, his agent or attorney, stating that the appeal is
not taken for the purposes of delay or vexation, but that it
is taken in good faith and for the purpose of obtaining
justice.

TITLE XXX.

Informations.

SEC. 724. An information may be filed against any
person unlawfully holding or exercising any public oiiice or
franchise within this territory, or any ollicer in any corporation created by the laws of this territory, or when any public
omcer has done or suffered any act which works a forfeiture
of his oiiice, or when any persons act as a corporation

within this territory without being authorized by law, or if
being incorporated, they do or omit acts which amount to it
surrender or forfeiture of their rights and privileges as a
corporation, or when they exercise powers not conferred
by law.Snc. 725. Such information may be filed by the
prosecuting attorney of the proper county whenever he deems
it his duty so to do.

SEC. 726. He must file such information when directed
to do so by thegovernor, the legislative assembly, or the‘
district court.

Sec. 727. Such information shall consist of a plain
statement of the facts which constitute the grounds of the
proceeding, addressed to the court, which shall stand for an
original petition. .

SEC. 728. Such statement shall be filed in the clerk's
oilice, and summons issued and served in the same manner
as hereinbefore provided, for the commencement of actions
in the district court.

SEC. 729. The defendant shall appear and answer such
information in the usual way, and issue being joined it shall
be tried in the ordinary manner.

SEC. 730. When the defendant is holding an ofiice to
which another is claiming a right, the information should
set forth the name of such claimant, and the trial must, if
practicable, determine the rights of the contesting parties.

SEC. 731. If judgment be rendered in favor of such
claimant, he shall proceed to exercise the functions of the
omce, after he has qualified as required by law.

SEC. 732. The court after such judgment, shall order
the defendant to deliver over all books and papers in his
custody or under his control belonging to said oiiice.

SEC. 733. When the judgment has been rendered in
favor of the claimant, he may at any time within one year
thereafter, bring suit against the defendant, and recover the
damages he has sustained by reason of the act of the
defendant. A 2

S130. 734. When several persons claim to be entitled to

the same oflice or franchise, an information may be filed
against all or any portion thereof in order to try their
respective rights thereto. _
SEC. 735. If the defendant be found guilty of unlawfully holding or exercising any office, franchise or privilege,
or if a corporation be found to have violated the law by
which it holds its existence, or in any other manner to have
done acts which amount to a surrender or forfeiture of its
privileges, judgment shall be rendered that such defendant
be ousted, and altogether excluded from such oilice,

franchise or privilege, and also that he pay the costs-of the

proceeding. .

SEC. 736. If the defendant be found to have exercised
merely certain individual powers and privileges to which he
was not entitled, the judgment shall be the same as above
directed, but only in relation to those particulars in which he
is thus exceeding the lawful exercise of its rights and
privileges. ‘

SEC. 737. When an information is upon the relation of
a private individual, it shall be so stated in the petition and
proceedings, and such individual shall be responsible for
costs in case they are not adjudged against the defendant.
In other cases the title of the cause shall be the same as in a.
criminal prosecution,’ and the payment of costs shall be
regulated by the same rule.

SEC. 738. In case judgment is rendered against a.
pretended, but not real corporation, the costs may be collected
from any person who has been acting as an ofiicer or proprietor of such pretended corporation.

SEC. 739. If a corporation is ousted and dissolved by
the proceedings herein authorized, the court shall appoint
three disinterested persons as trustees of the creditors and

stockholders.

Site. 740. Such trustees shall enter into bond, in such

a penalty and with such security as the court may approve,
conditioned for the faithful discharge of their trust.

S130. 741. Suit may be brought on such bond by any

person injured by the negligence or wrongful act of the
trustees in the discharge of their duties. .

SEC. 742. The trustees shall proceed immediately to
collect the debts and pay the liabilities of the corporation
and to divide the surplus among those thereto entitled.

SEC. 743. The court shall, upon an application for

that purpose, order any officer of such corporation, or any
other person having possession of any of the effects, books
or papers of the corporation in any wise necessary for the
settlement of its affairs, to deliver up the same. to the
trustees.

SEC. 744. As soon as practicable after their appointment, the trustees shall make and file in the office of the
clerk of the court, an inventory of all the cflhcts, ."rights
and credits, which come to their possession or knowledge,
the truth of which inventory shall be sworn to.

SEC. 745. They shall sue for and recover the debts and
property of the corporation, and shall be responsible to the
creditors and stockholders, respectively, to the extent of the
effects which come to their hands, in the same manner as
though they were the executors of a deceased person.

S130. 746. When judgment of ouster is rendered against
a corporation on account of the misconduct of the directors
or officers thereof, such oflicers shall bejointly and severally
liable to an action by any one injured thereby.

Ssh. 747. Any person Who, without good reason,
refuses to obey any order of the court as herein provided,
shall be deemed guiltyiof a. contempt of court, and shall be
fined in any sum not exceeding five thousand dollars, and
imprisoned in the countyjail until he comply with said order,
and shall be further liable for the damages resulting to any
person on account of his refusal to obey such order. ~

SEC. 748. A proceeding of this kind may be instituted
in the manner above contemplated for the purpose of annulling
or vacating any letters patent granted by the proper authorities of this territory, where there is reason to believe that
the same were obtained by fraud, or through mistake or
ignorance of a material fact, or when the patentee, ‘or those

claiming under him, have done or omitted an act in violation
of the terms and conditions on which the letters were granted,
or have, by any other means, forfeited the interest acquired
under the same.

TITLE XXXL
Chancery;

SEC. 749. All actions in chancery shall be commenced
by filing, in the oflice of the register of the proper court, a
bill of complaint setting forth the nature of the complaint,
agreeably to the usages and practice of courts of equity,
and causing a subpoena to be issued thereon, except as
hereinafter provided for service on non-residents.

SEC. 750. The subpmna shall be issued and signed by’
the register of said court, under the seal thereof, dated on
the day it is issued; it shall run in the name of the territory
of Wyoming, and shall be directed to the defendant or
defendants named ‘in the bill, requiring him or them to

‘appear and answer the said billzon or before the day therein

named, as hereinafter provided. If one or more defendants
reside in any other county of this territory than that in
which the action is rightly brought, then, on the request of
the complainant or complainants, subpcena may be issued as
aforesaid, against such defendant or defendants, to such
county. The subpoena may be served by the sher‘-if or
coroner of the county in which the defendant or defendants
to be sued reside, and if there be no sheriff or coroner in
such county, then, by such person as the register may
designate: Provided, That whenever any subpoena shall be
served by a person designated by such register, the person
making such service shall verify the same by his own affidavit.

SEC. 751. The subpoena shall be made returnable on the
second Monday after the day of its date, except when issued to
any other county than that in which the action is brought,
it may be made returnable at the option of the party having
it issued, on the third or fourth Monday after its date, and
shall require the defendant or defendants therein named, to
appear and answer the bill on the third Monday after the

date of the return thereof, and the day of the month on
which the defendant is required to answer the bill shall be
inserted in the snbpmna.

SEC. 752. Service of subpoena shall be made by
delivering a certified copy thereof to each defendant
personally, or by leaving one at his usual place of residence,
at any time before the return day. The return must state
the time and manner of service, and the ollicer or person
serving the subpoena must make his return at the time
therein stated. If the subpoena shall not be returned, served
on the defendant or defendants, or any one or_more of them,
on the return day thereof, the register shall, if required,
issue alias or pluries subpoena against such defendant or
defendants as the case may be.

SEC. 753. In actions against corporations, service may
be made upon the president, mayor, chairman of the board
of managers, directors or trustees, ‘or other chief ollicer, or
if its chief oflicer is not found in the county, then, upon its
secretary, cashier, clerk or agent, or if none of the aforesaid oilicers can be found, then by copy left at the oflice or
usual place of business of such corporation; and service of
subpmna and return thereof shall be made at the time and
in the manner provided in the last preceding section.

SEC. 754. If it shall be shown by the bill properly sworn
to, or by ailidavit filed in the ofhce of the register, that the
action relates to, or the subject thereof is, real estate or
personal property in this territory, or that the defendant or
d efendants has or have claims in interest, actual or contingent therein, or that the relief sought consists wholly or
partially in excluding him or them from any interest therein,
and that such defendant or defendants is or are non-residents
of, and service of subpoena cannot be made upon him or them
in this territory, then service on such defendant or defendants
who are non-resident, may, without issuance of subpoena, be
made by publication of notice four consecutive weeks in
some newspaper regularly printed in the county in which
the action is brought, and if no newspaper is printed in
such county, then in some newspaper printed in this territory

in general circulation in said county; and such service shall
be deemed complete when publication shall have been made
in the manner and for the time prescribed as aforesaid, and
shall be proved by the amdavit of the printer, or his
foreman, or principal clerk, or other person knowing the
fact. The notice by publication as aforesaid, shall state the
court in which the bill is filed, and the parties to the action;
shall contain a summary statement of the object and prayer
of the bill, and shall require the defendant or defendants to
appear and answer said bill on the third Monday after the
completion of such service as aforesaid. a
see. 755.’ If the defendant or defendants shall fail to
appear and file in the office of the register, his or their
answer, plea, demurrer or exceptions to the bill within the
time herein before required, after service is made by
subpoena or by publication of notice, the complainant or
complainants may in term time, take and enter the default
of such defendant or defendants, and tliereupon the bill

shall be taken pro confesso and as true, and the cause shall

he proceeded in ex: partc, an 1 such decree shall be rendered
or order made therein by the court as the nature of the case
may require, if the same can be done without answer. If
the complainant or complainants require any discovery or
answer to enable him or them to obtain a proper decree, he
or they may, on leave of the court, have process of attachnient against the defendant or defendants, to compel an
answer cr may have sequestration of the property of such
defendant or defendants, and have his or their demand paid
out of the proceeds of the property sequestered. Provided,
however, That for good cause shown on due notice to the
adverse party, the court in term, or a judge thereof or
master in vacation, may extend the time of pleading
required as aforesaid.

SEC. 756. Every defendant shall fully answer all the
allegations and interrogatories of the bill of complaint,
except such as are not required to be answered by reason of
exceptions, plea or demurrer thereto allowed, unless the
court shall otherwise direct.

SEC. 757. Exceptions to bills and answers for impertinence and scandal, shall be in writing, signed by counsel,
describing the particular passages which are considered to be
scandalous or impertincnt, and shall be hled to bills within
the time limited for answering the same, and to answers
within the time limited for replying to the same. If the
court shall find such exceptions to be well taken, it shall
order the register to expunge the scandalous or impertinent
matter, describing the matter so to be expunged with such
particularity that the same may be identified. The register
shall expunge such matter by drawing lines in red ink
through the same, andin the margin referring to the order of
the court, by its date and page of the journal in which it is
entered. Exceptions to answers for insufliciency, shall be
in writing, signed by counsel, and shall state fully the
matter or interrogatory of the bill remaining unanswered,
and shall be filed within the time limited for replying to
answers. If the court shall find the answer insuilicient, it
shall fix the time for putting in a further answer, and specify
the same in the order. If such further answer shall still be
insuiiicient, exceptions thereto may be filed in the same
manner, and within the same time as to original answers;
and if the court shall iind such answer insufficient, it shall
fix some reasonable time for putting in a second further
answer, and specify the same in its order. If such second
further answer shall be insufticient, like exceptions may be
tiled ; and if the same shall be found by the court to be
insufiicient, the matter of the bill to which such exceptions
apply, and no other parts of the bill shall be taken as
confessed, unless, for cause, the court shall otherwise
omcially order. When exceptions are filed to pleadings, the
cause shall be deemed set down to be heard thereon by the
court without a reference to a master.

SEC. 758. Replications shall be general, and shall be
filed on the second Monday after the filing of the answer or
plea of the defendant, and thereupon either party may enter
in the appearance docket the name of the master before

whom he will take his testimony, and may proceed therein
according to law.’

SEC. 759. After replication is filed, the cause shall be
deemed at issue. On default of filing such replication
within the time required in the last precedingsection, the
cause may be set for hearing on bill and answer, unless the
court shall otherwise direct.

SEC. 760. In all cases where a decree or final order
shall be made upon a bill taken pro confesso, and the defendant or defendants shall have been brought before the court
by publication only, such non-resident defendants may, upon
motion in open court, have such decree or order opened for
a bearing, upon such non-resident defendant or defendants,
showing to the satisfaction of the court that he or they have
a meritorious defense to the bill, and did not have any actual
notice of the pendency of the suit in season to make said
defense; Provided, Such motion shall be made within three
years from the entering of such decree or final order ;
Provided further, That infants, idiots and insane persons,
shall have the right to have such decree or order opened at
any time within three years after such disability shall be
removed.

SEC. 761. Amendments of pleading may be allowed by '

the court upon motion and notice thereof to the adverse
party, or his solicitor, either by a new engrossment of the
pleadings containing the matter of the amendment, or. when
the adverse party shall consent thereto in writing, by an
interlineation of the amendment. Before the time allowed
by the court for amending a pleading has elapsed, the same
may be extended; but after such time has elapsed, further
time shall not be granted, unless the court, for special
reasons shown, shall by order grant a further extension.
Matter arising after a party has filed his pleading, shall he
pleaded only by the proper supplemental pleading. A
defendant shall plead to an amended hill on or before the
fifth Monday after service upon him, or his solicitor’, of
notice of the filing thereof.

Etc. 762. The bill of complaint and the answer thereto,

except when the anidavit to the answer is expressly waived
by the bill, shall be verihed by the ailidavit of the party
filing the same, or by his agent or solicitor. The verification
to the bill, and also to the answer or other pleading when
required to be made under oath, may be made by the agent
or solicitor.

‘ First, When such party is a non-resident of or is absent
from the county in which the action is brought.

Second, When all the facts are within the personal
knowledge of the agent or solicitor.

Third, When the party is an infant, or of unsound mind,
or imprisoned.

SEC. 763. The verification of the bill, answer or other
pleading may be made before and certified by a person authorized to administer an oath in the state, territory or foreign
country in which the party may be or resides at the time.
The oflicial character of such oilicer, if out of this territory,
must be attested by the seal of some courtof record within
such state, territory or foreign power. The verification of a
pleading shall be to the effect that the deponent has read the
pleading, or has heard it read, and knows the contents

- thereof, and that the same is true of his own knowledge,

except as to the matters which are therein stated to be on
his information and belief, and as to those matters that he
believes it to be true, and the substance of the oath
administered shall be stated in the jurat.

SEC. 764. When the complainant or complainants shall
waive the necessity of the answer being made on the oath of
the defendant or defendants, the answer shall have no other
or greater force as evidence than the hill.

SEC. 765. When a bill is taken pro confesso, before
hnal decree is made, if deemed requisite, the court may order
the complainant to produce documents and witnesses to prove
the allegations of the bill, or may examine him on oath, or
adigmation, touching the facts therein alleged.

SEC. 766. Whenever an execution shall have been issued
against the property of any defendant, on a judgment at
law or decree in equity, and shall have been returned

unsatisfied, in whole or in part, the party issuing such execution, may file a bill in chancery against such defendant or
defendants, and any other person or persons, to compel the
discovery of any real estate, personal property, money or
other thing in action due to him or them, or held in trust
for him or them; and from and after the date of the service

I of the subpoena issued on such bill, or the first publication

of notice as hereinbefore required, as the case may be, the
action shall be deemed pending so as to charge all real
estate, personal property, money or other thing in action
belonging to or held in trust as aforesaid, for said defendant
or defendants, with a lien thereon, as in case of attachment
at law, and the same shall be subject to the final decree
or order of the court which shall be made in the cause;
And like proceedings may be had to compel the discovery
of a decedent’s property, whose administrator conceals and
misapplies the same.

SEC. 767. The court shall have power to compel such
discovery as is provided in the last preceding section, and to
decree satisfaction of the sum remaining due on such judgments or decrees out of the proceeds of the sale of any real
estate or personal property, or out of any money or thing in
action belonging to the defendant or defendants, Which‘ shall
be discovered by the proceeding in chancery; and the court
is empowered to- make all necessary decrees for the sale of
real estate or personal property, and to enforce the collection
of all money or other thing in action, of such defendant or
defendants, discovered as aforesaid; Provided, That no
answer made to any bill filed under this and the last preceding
section shall be read in evidence against the defendant or
defendants on the trial of an indictment for the fraud
charged in the bill.

SEC. 768. No action shall abate by reason of the death,
marriage br disability of any party, if the cause of action
survive and continue. In either case, the action may be
revived and continued by or against the representative of
such deceased, or disabled, or married party, by motion made

in open court, within one year after the death, marriage or
disability of the party, or afterwards by supplemental bill
and service of subpoena. or publication of notice thereof,
according to the provisions of sections numbered seven
hundred and fifty-two or seven hundred and fifty-four of this
code, as the case may be. In case of any transfer of interest,
the action may be continued in the name of the original
party; or the court may allow the person to whom the
interest is transferred to be substituted in the action by
-motion or supplemental bill as aforesaid.

SEC. 769. In all actions in ehancery- and actions to
obtain title to lands, if there be persons interested in the
same whose names are unknown, it shall be lawful to make
such persons parties to such suits or proceedings by the
name and description of persons unknown, or unknown heirs
or devisees of any deceased person who has been interested
in the subject matter of the action, previous to his or her
death; but in all such cases, the aliidavit shall be filed in
the oflice of the register, by the party desiring to make any
unknown person a party, stating that the names of such
persons are unknown to him, and that he has made diligent
enquiry to ascertain the name or names of such unknown
person or persons, and process shall be iss;;.ed against all
parties by the name and description given as aforesaid, and
publication of notice, as is reguired in section seven hundred
and fifty-four, shall be sufficient to authorize the court to
hear and determine the action as though all parties had been
sued by their proper names.

SEC. 770. All decrees, orders and proceedings made or
had with respect to such unknown persons shall have the
same effect and be as binding and conclusive upon them, as
though such action or proceeding had been instituted against
them by their proper names.

SEC. 771. Whenever a decree shall be made in any suit
in chancery, directing the execution of any deed or other
writing, and the party against whom the same shall have
been entered, shall not comply therewith within the time
required, it shall be lawful for the court, by an order to

direct a master or specially appoint a commissioner to execute
the same. The execution thereof by such master or commissioner shall be as valid in law to pass, release or extinguish
the right, title and interest of the party on whose behalf it
is executed, as if it had been executed by such party in
proper person in conformity with such decree; and‘ such
deed’ or other writing, if it relate to land, shall be recorded
in the oilice of the register of deeds of the county wherein
the lands lie, in the same manner and with like effect as
deeds are therein recorded.

SEC. 772. In all cases where a sale of property is
decreed, the court may direct the same to be made for cash,
or on such credit and on such terms as it may deem best
and most equitable to the interests of the several parties.

SEC. 773. All decrees rendered for the payment of
money, and for the sale of real estate or personal property,
shall be and remain a lien upon the real estate of the
defendant or defendants within the county in which the
action is brought for the period of five years, and if the
amount of such decree, or any balance thereof, shall remain
uncollected by the usual proceedings in chancery, the
same may be collected by execution, as in cases of execution
upon judgments at law.

SEC. 774. When the subpoena has been served, or pub.lication of notice is first made, the action is deemed pending,
so as to charge third persons with notice of its pendency ;
and while pending, no interest can be acquired by third
persons in the subject matter thereof, as against the
complainant’s right or title thereto.

SEC. 775. Any defendant may, after filing his answer
exhibit and file his cross bill, containing interrogatories to
the complaint or complaints, and call upon him or them to
make answer thereto. In such cases the complainants shall be
held to answer, plead, demur or except to ‘such cross bill, in
the same manner and under the same penalties that a
defendant or defendants are hereinbefore required to answer,
plead, demur or except to an original bill. If the cross bill
is filed in term time, the complainant or complainants shall

answer within such time as the court may order; if filed in

vacation, the complainant or complainants shall answer such,
cross bill within the time hereinbefore prescribed for defendan ts.

to answer original bills; and the issuance, service and return
of subpoena, or publication of notice in’ case of non-resis

dents, shall be the same as hereinbefore provided in the.

commencement of actions in chancery.

SEC. 776. If the complainant or complainants shall fail
to answer all the allegations and interrogatories of the
cross-bill, his bill shall be dismissed with costs, or the new
matter set out in the defendant's cross-bill shall be taken
pro confesso and as true, and a decree entered accordingly-.

[SEc. 776. The complainant or complainants shall not
be compelled to file his or their answer to any cross bill
until the defendant shall have iiled a suflicient answer to the
complainant’s bill.] _i

SEC. 777. N o complaint shall be allowed to dismiss his
bill, after a cross bill has been filed, without the consent of
the defendant.

SEC. 778. When a bill is defective for want of parties,
the same not appearing on the face of the bill, the defendant
may suggest the defect in his answer, stating the name and
residence of the party who should be impleaded in the bill,
together with his interest in the subject matter in controversy.
The complaint may have the cause set down for argument on
that objection only by entering on the appearance docket, an
entry to the effect’ following, to-wit: “ Set down upon the
defendant's objection for want of parties. " Where the
complainant shall not so set down his cause, but shall
proceed therewith to a hearing, notwithstanding an objection
for want of parties, he shall not, at the hearing of the
cause, if the defendant’s objection be then allowed, be
entitled to an order as of course for liberty to amend his bill,
but the court shall be at liberty to dismiss the bill. If a
defendant shall, at the hearing. of a cause, object that a suit
is defective for want of parties, not having by plea or
answer taken the objection, and therein specified by name
and description the parties to whom the objection applies,

the court, if it shall think fit, shall be at liberty to make a
decree, saving the rights of the absent’ parties.

SEC. 779. The master who is charged by a party with
the taking of testimony, shall, by order in such case, fix a
time and place for the taking of such proofs, giving not less
than five days notice thereof to the parties, their counsel
or solicitms, and the proofs shall be taken in presence of the
parties or their agents, or such of them as may attend, and
the examination of witnesses shall be conducted, as near as
may be, in the mode now used in common law courts. The
deposition shall be reduced to writing by the master, and
shall be taken in the form of interrogatories and answers,

a unless the parties agree that it may beitaken in the form of

narrative, and when complete,‘ shall be signed by the
Witness in the presence of the parties or their counsel, or
such of them as may attend, but if the witness refuse to
sign his deposition, then the master shall state the fact and
sign the same. Any question or other matter of evidence
which may be objected to, shall be noted by the master at
the time, stating the objection, but shall not have power to
decide on the competency, materiality or relevancy of the
question or other matter of evidence. If either party shall
fail to attend at the time and place of examination, the
master may proceed ex parte, or in his discretion may adjourn
the examination to a future day, giving notice to the absent
party or his solicitor, of such adjournment. The master is
empowered to issue subpoena to witnesses and process of
attachment against such as make default, and to adjourn the
examination and proceedings before him, from time to time,
until the same is completed, subject, however, to the order
of the court.

SEC. 780. Upon the application of either party, the
court may, in its discretion, appoint a special master in
any cause.

SEC. 781. The deposition of any witness residing in
any other county in this territory than that in which the
action is pending, may be taken, upon notice to the adverse
party, stating the title of the cause, the name of the court

in which the same is pending, the time and place of taking
the deposition, and that the same will be used on the hearing
of the cause; such notice shall be served on the adverse
party, his agent or attorney of record, by delivering to said
party, his agent or attorney a copy thereof, or by leaving a
copy at his usual place of residence, and shall be served so
as to allow said party sufhcient time, by the usual route of
travel, to attend, and one day for preparation, exclusive of
Sundays and the day of service, and the examination may, if
so stated in the notice, be adjourned from day to day.

SEC. 782. Depositions taken under and by virtue of
the last preceding section, ‘may be taken before a judge or
clerk of the supreme or district court, or before a justice of
the peace, notary public, or mayor or chief magistrate of
any city of this territory.

SEC. 783. On application of the parties to an action,
or any one or more of them, to the register of the court of
the county in which the action is pending, the said register
shall issue a commission or commissions to take depositions
of witnesses in any other county of this territory, or in any
state, territory or foreign country, upon interrogatories filed
in his odice.

SEC. 784. Before the issuance of any such commission,
the party applying therefor, shall give ten days notice to the
adverse party, of the filing of such interrogatories, and that
unless cross interrogatories shall be filed in the office of said
register within.that time, a commission will be issued ea: parte.
The party making the application shall name on his part a
commissioner, with the name of the county, city or town,
and state, territory or foreign country, of his residence ;
and the adverse party, on filing cross interrogatories, may
also name on his part a commissioner of the same place.
The testimony may be taken before the commissioners,
jointly or before one of them, upon notice to the other, of
the time and place of taking the same; and the fact of
giving such notice must be stated in the return of the commissioner taking the same.

SEC. 785. The commissioner or commissioners thus

designated and appointed, shall have full power and authority
to administer oaths and afiirmations to the witnesses or
parties examined before him or them,-to issue subpoena to
said witnesses, and issue process of attachment against such
as make default.

SEC. 786. When the party against whom the deposition
is intended to be taken, is a non-resident of this territory,
and has no agent or attorney of record in the county in
which the action is pending, then a copy of the notice
‘required by section seven hundred and eighty-one, for taking
the deposition, one copy of the notice required by section
seven hundred and eighty-four, of filing interrogatories, as
the case may he, shall be filed in the office of the register of
the court in which the action is pending, fifteen days prior to
the time of taking the deposition or the issuance of the
commission, and a minute thereof, and of the date of filing
such copy, shall be entered on the appearance docket of said
court in the cause.

Site. 787. Every deposition taken under the provisions
of this title, shall be written in the presence of the o$cer or
person -taking the same, either by such oflicer or person, the
witness or some disinterested person, and subscribed by the
witness.

Sec. 7 88. The otlicer, commissioner or commissioners
taking the deposition, shall annex thereto a certificate,
showing,—

First, That -the witness was first duly sworn to testify the
truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth.

Second, That the deposition was reduced to writing in
his ‘or their presence, by him or them, or by the witness or
some disinterested -person, naming him, and that the same
was written in the presence of the ‘witness, and by him
subscribed at the time of taking the same. SEC. 789 The deposition so taken shall be scaled up
and indorsed with the title of the cause and the name of the
person taking the same, and by him addressed and transmitted to the register of the court where the action is
pending. It shall -remain sealed until opened by order of

the court, or at the request of a party to the action or his
counsel or solicitor. '

Sec. 790. The deposition taken as aforesaid, may be
‘read in evidence on the trial, or hearing of the cause in which
it-is taken,'and also in any subsequent action wherein the
same matter shall be in dispute between the same parties or
persons, their heirs, executors, administrators or assigns.

SEC. 791. Exceptions to depositions taken as aforesaid,
shall be in writing, specifying the grounds of objection, and
shall be filed, with the papers in the cause, and no exceptions
shall be -regarded except for incompetency, immateriality or
irrelevency, unless made in writing, as aforesaid, and filed
in the oliice of the register before the commencement of the
trial or hearing of the cause. .

Size. 792. The master or commissioner is empowered
to issue summons and command the presence of witnesses,
-and to punish witnesses for neglect or refusal to obey his
summons, or for refusal to testify when present, unless
exempt by statute from giving evidence by commitment to
the jail of the county for contempt; and all sheriiTs and
constables in this territory are hereby required to serve and
‘return all process issued by masters or commissioners in the
taking of depositions. The master shall file the depositions
‘within ten days from the taking thereof.

SEC. 793. In all actions in chancery, either party may
appeal from the decree rendered or final order made by the
district court, to the supreme court of this Territory. The
partyiappealing shall, within thirty days from the date of
rendition of such decree or the making such final order, file
in the ofiice of the register of the court in which the action
is brought, a notice in writing of such appeal, and upon the
filing of such notice as aforesaid, and causing a minute
thereof, and of the date of such filing to be made in said
cause upon the appearance docket of said court, the appeal
shall be deemed properly taken.

SEC. 794. No appeal taken as aforesaid shall operate‘.
as a supersedeas, unless the-appellant or appellants shall,
within the time aforesaid, execute or cause to beexecuted, a

bond on his or their part, to the adverse party, with one or
more sureties as follows :

First, When the decree or dual order appealed from
directs the payment of money, the bond shall be in double
the amount of the decree or dual order, conditioned that the
appellant or appellants will prosecute such appeal without
delay, and pay all condemnation money and costs which
may be found against him or them on the dual determination
of the cause by the supreme court.

Second, When the decree or final order directs the
execution of a conveyance or other instrument, the bond
shall be in such sum as may be prescribed by any district
court of this territory, or any judge thereof in vacation,
conditioned that the appellaht or appellants will prosecute
such appeal without delay, and will abide and perform the
decree which shall be rendered, or the final order which
shall be made by the supreme court in the cause; but instead
of such bond, the appellant or appellants may execute the
conveyance or other instrument, and deposit the same with
the register of the court, to abide the decree or dual order
of the appellate court.

Thircl, When the decree or final order directs the sale or
delivcry of possession of real estate, t.he bond shall be in
such sum as may be prescribed as last aforesaid, conditioned
that the appellant or appellants will not, during the
pendency of such appeal, commit or suder to be committed,
any waste upon such real estate, and will prosecute such
appeal without delay, and abide and perform in all things,
the decree which shall be rendered, or the dual order which
shall be made by the supreme court in the cause.

Fourth, When the decree or dual order directs the
assignment, cancellation or delivery of conveyances,
documents or other instruments, the assignment or
cancellation may be made and the conveyance, documents or
other instruments, thus assigned or cancelled, or to be delivered, may be placed in the custody of the register of the court
in which the decree was rendered or dual order made, to abide
the decree which shall be rendered, or the final order which

shall be made by the supreme court in the cause, or the
appellant or appellants may give bond as aforesaid, in such
sum as may be prescribed as aforesaid, conditioned that he or
they will prosecute such appeal without delay, and abide and
perform the decree which shall be rendered or the final order,
which shall be made by the supreme court in the cause:
Provided, That when the application to fix the amount of the
bond hereinbefore required, in any case of appeal, is made to
any district court or judge thereof other than the district
court in which, or the judge before whom the cause has been
heard and decided, the party making such application shall
give to the adverse party, his agent, counsel or solicitor, at
least five days’ notice, in writing, of the time and place of
making such application.

SEC. 795. Before any bond, executed as aforesaid,
shall operate as a supersedeas, the execution of such bond, '
and the suflicicncy of the sureties therein, must be approved
by the court in which such decree was rendered, or final order
made, or by the judge thereof, in vacation, or by the register
of said court, and such approval must be indorsed upon the
bond, and signed by said court or person taking the same,
and the bond filed in the oflice of the register of the adverse

, party.

SEC. 796. The appellant or appellants shall, within six
months from and after the date of the filing in the register’s'
ollice, a notice of his appeal, procure from said register, and
file in the oflice of the clerk of the supreme court of this
territory, a certified transcript of the proceedings had in the
cause in the district court, containing the pleadings and the
decree rendered, or linal order made thereon, and all the
depositions of record offered in evidence, and all other
evidence of record offered, on the hearing of the cause,
and have the cause properly docketed in the said supreme
court; and on failure thereof, the decree rendered or
final order made in the district court shall stand and be
proceeded tn as if no appeal had been taken.

SEC,‘ 797. Actions in chancery may be commenced and ;
prosecuted and defended by infants or other persons who

are under guardianship, or otherwise incapable to sue for
themselves, by their general guardians, by guardian: ad
litem, or by their next friend. A guardian ad litem shall be
appointed by the court, upon the petition of the party who
is incapable of prosecuting or defending a cause for himself.
If the application for the appointment is not made within
the usual time for the appearance, the adverse party may
apply to the court to appoint a suitable person as the
guardian. N 0 person shall be appointed a guardian
ad litem who has any interest adverse to the person
for whom he is appointed or connected in business with
the solicitor or counsel for the adverse party. No
money or property belonging to the person for whom the
appointment is made, shall be delivered to any guardian
ad litem, unless he shall, under such directions as the court
shall, by order make, give a bond with suiiicient security
for the faithful application of such money or property, as
the court shall direct. Summary application by petition to
the court, may be made for all necessary orders directing
guardians ad litem.

SEC. 798. All proceedings in actions in chancery not
herein provided, shall be agreeably to the rules and practice
in courts in equity.

SEC. 799. An action in chancery may be brought and
prosecuted to iinal decree, judgment or order, and all
necessary subsequent proceedings thereon, in order to carry
into effect such decree, judgment or order, may be had by
any person who holds an absolute title to real estate, against
any person who claims an adverse estate or interest therein,
for the purpose of determining such estate or interest, Provided however, That the person claiming such adverse estate
or interest is not in possession of the property: And provided further, That the provisions of this title shall not apply
to the settlement, partition or division of real estate among
the heirs of a decedent, where the same is provided for by
the intestate laws of this territory.

sac. 800. The district judges in each of the districts
in this territory, shall have power to appointsome person

residing in each of the organized counties of said district, as a
master in chancery, for said counties respectively, who shall
hold his oiiice for three years, unless sooner removed by said
judge, and shall keep his ioiiice at the county seat; said
judges shall only have power to remove any master in chancery within their respective districts, upon proof, in open
court, of incompetency or negligence in discharging his duty;
and they shall have power at any time to fill all vacancies
‘occasioned by removal as herein provided, by death, resignation or otherwise; -Provided, There may be two masters
‘appointed in each of the counties of

SEC. 801. "Said masters in chancery shall be sworn
to faithfully perform the duties of their omce, and they shall
have power to perform the ordinary duties of master in
chancery, together with the duties of a judge of the district
court of chancery in vacation. A

Site. 802. Whenever the master in chancery for any
county shall remove therefrom, or become otherwise incapacitated to discharge the duties of his oiiice, the district
court for such county shall declare the oflice vacant, and
appoint another person thereto, in the same manner as if the
same had never been filled.

TITLE XXXII.
General Provisions Applicable to the Whole Clode-Process.

SEC. 803. The style of all process_shall be “The Territory of Wyoming.” It shall be under the seal of the court
from whence the same shall issue, shall be signed by the
clerk, and dated the day it is issued.

SEC. 804. An order for a provisional remedy or any
other process, in an action wherein the sheriff is a party or
is interested, shall be directed to the coroner. If both these
oilicers are interested, the process shall be directed to, and
executed by a person appointed, as provided in the next
section. '

SEC. 805. The court or judge, or the clerk. in the
absence of the judge from the county, for good cause, may
appoint a person to serve a particular process or order, who

shall have the same power to execute it, which the sherif
has. The person may be appointed on the application of the
party obtaining the process or order, and the return must be
verified by atlidavit. He shall be entitled to the same fees
allowed to the sheriff for similar services.

Duties of Clerks.
SEC. 806. The clerk of the district court shall keep an

appearance docket, a trial docket, journal, a judgment ’

docket, an execution docket, and such other books as may
be ordered by the court, or required by law. _

SEC. 807. On the appearance docket he shall enter all
actions in the order in which they are brought, the date of
the summons, the time of the return thereof by the oflicer,
and his return thereon, the time of filing the petition, and
all subsequent pleadings and papers. and an abstract of all
judgments and orders of the court.

Sec. 808. On the journal shall be entered the procedings of the court of each day, and all orders of the judge
in vacation or at chambers, and also all judgments entered
on confession or default.

SEC. 809. The judgment docket shall be kept in the
form of an index, in which the name of each person against
whom a judgment is rendered shall appear in alphabetical
order, a statement of each judgment upon its rendition shall
be entered therein, containing the names of the parties, the
amount or nature of the judgment or costs, and the date of
its rendition, and if the judgment be against several persons,
the entry shall be repeated under the name of each person
against whom the judgment is rendered, in alphabetical order.

SEC. 810. In the execution docket the clerk shall enter
all executions as they are issued by him. The entry shall
contain the names of the parties, the date and amount of
the judgment and costs, the date of the execution, and the
name of the county to which it is issued. The clerk shall also
record in full the return of the sheriif to each execution;
and such record shall be evidence of such return, if the

original be mislaid or lost.

SEC. 811. When there is no execution out-standidg,
the clerk of the court in which the judgment was rendered,

' may receive the amount of the judgment and costs, and

receipt therefor, with the same effect as if the same had been
paid to the sheri&' on an execution; and the clerk shall be
liable to be amerced for refusing to pay the same to the
party entitled thereto, when requested, and shall also be
liable on his official bond. . ,

SEC. 812. All writs and orders for provisional remedies,
and process of every kind, shall be issued by the clerks of
the several courts, upon a praecipe filed with the clerk, demanding the same.

SEC. 813. It is the duty of each clerk of the courts to
file together and carefully preserve in his office, all papers
delivered to him'for that purpose, in_every action or special
proceeding.

SEC. 814. He shall keep the papers in each case separate, carefully enveloped in a wrapper, labelled with the
title of the cause.

SEC. 815. He shall indorse upon every paper ‘dled
with him, the day of filing it; and upon every undertaking
given under the same, the day of its return to his oiiice.

SEC. 816. He shall, upon the return of every summons
served, enter upon the appearance docket the name of the
defendant or defendants summoned, and the day of service
upon each one. The entry shall be evidence of the service
of the summons, in case of the loss thereof.  

SEC. 817. He shall keep the records and books and
papers appertaining to the court, and record its proceedings.

SEC. 818. The provisions of this title shall, as far as
they are applicable, apply to the clerks of all courts of
record.

SEC. 819. The clerk of each of the courts shall exercise the powers and perform the duties conferred and imposed upon [him] by other provisions of this code, by statutes, and by the common law. In the performance of his
duties, he shall be under the direction of his court.

Duties of Sherzf.

SEC. 820. The sheriff shall indorse upon every summons, order of arrest, or for the delivery of property, or of
attachment or injunction, the day and hour it was received
by him.

SEC. 821. He shall execute every summons, order or
other process, and return the same as required by law; and
if he fail to do so, unless he make it appear to the satisfaction of the court that he was prevented by inevitable
accident from so doing, he shall be amerced by court in a
sum not exceeding one thousand dollars, upon motion and
ten days notice, and shall be liable to the action of any
person aggrieved by such failure. 7

SEC. 822. If the judge of a court an to attend at the
time and place appointed for holding his court, the sheriff
shall have power to adjourn the court, from day to day,
until the judge attend, but if the judge be not present in his

court within five days after the first day of the term, then '

the court shall stand adjourned for the term. The sheriff
shall exercise the powers and duties conferred and imposed
upon him byother provisions of this code, by other statutes,
and by the common law.

Zlliscellaneous Provisions.

SEC. 823. Any duty enjoined by this code upon a
ministerial officer, and any act permitted to be done by him,
may be performed by his lawful deputy.

SEC. 824. Whenever an oath is required by this code,
the aflirmation of a person, concientiously scrupulous of
taking an oath, shall have the same effect. '

SEC. 825. The time within which an act is to be done,
shall be computed by excluding the first day, and including
the last; if the last day be Sunday it shall be excluded,
and the return day shall be the following Monday.

SEC. 826. A ministerial oilicer, whose duty it is to take
security in any undertaking provided for by this code, or by
other statutes, shall require the person offered as surety to
make an aflidavit of his qualifications, which aflidavit may

be made before such ohicer, and shall be indorsed upon orattached to the undertaking. The taking of such an aHidavit shall not exempt the otlicer from any liability to which
he might otherwise be subjected for taking insuiiicient
security.

SEC. 827. The surety in every undertaking provided
for by this code or other statute, must be a resident of this
territory, and worth double the sum to be secured, over and
above all exemptions, debts and liabilities; where there are
two or more sureties in the same undertaking, they must,
in the aggregate, have the qualilications prescribed in this
section: Provided, That no judge, justice of the peace, or
attorney at law shall be received as, or‘ allowed to become
surety on any bond or undertaking, official or otherwise,
required by this act, or any other statute of this territory.

SEC. 828. The judges of the supreme court shall, at

their iirst session, and every two years thereafter, meet at‘

the capitol of the territory, and revise their general rules, and
make such amendments thereto as may be required to carry
into effect the provisions of this code, and shall make such
further rules consistent therewith as they may deem proper.
The rules so made shall apply to the supreme court, the
district courts, the probate courts and all other courts of
record. ‘

SEC. 829. In all actions upon bills of exchange or

promissory notes, or other written instruments, whenever any i

of the parties thereto are designated by the initial letter or
letters, or some contraction of the christian or first name or
names, it shall be suilicient to designate such person by the
name, initial letter or letters, or contraction of the first name

or names, instead of stating the christian or first name or names
in full.

SEC. 830. _ Any company or association of persons‘
formed for the purpose of carrying on any trade or business, T

or for the purpose of holding any species of property in this
territory, and not incorporated, may sue and be sued by such
usual name as such company, partnership or association may
have assumed to itself or [be] known by, and it shall not be

necessary in such case to set forth in the process or pleadings,
‘or to prove at the trial, ‘the names of the persons composing
such company.

SEC. 831. Process against any such company or firm
shall be served by a copy left at their usual place of doing
business within the county, with one of the members of such
‘company or firm, or with a clerk or general agent thereof,
and executions issued on any judgments rendered in such
proceedings shall belevied only on partnership property.

SEC. 832. In cases where a company shall sue in its
partnership name, such company shall procure the writ to
be indorsed by a. responsible surety, resident of the county,
for costs, or otherwise give security for costs. .

SEC. 833. If the plaintiff, in any judgment so rendered
against any company or partnership, shall seek to charge
the individual property of the person composing such
company or firm, it shall be lawful for him to file a bill in
chancery against the several members thereof, setting forth
his judgment and the insuiliciency of the partnership property
to satisfy the same, and to have a decree for ‘the debt, and
an award of execution against all such persons or any of
them as may appear to have been members of such company,
association or firm.

Provisions Respecting C'erta2'n Actions.

SEC. 834. The provisions of this code do not apply to
proceedings in actions or suits pending when it takes effect.
They shall be conducted to final judgment or decree, in all
respects, as if it had not been adopted; but the provisions
of this code shall apply after a judgment, order or decree,
heretofore or hereafter rendered, to the proceedings to enforce,
vacate. modify or reverse it.

SEC. 835. Rights of civil action given or secured by
existing laws, shall be prosecuted in the manner provided for
by this code, except as provided in the next section. If a case
over arise in which an action or proceeding for the enforcement or protection of a right, or the redress or prevention of
a wrong, cannot be had under this code, the practice of the

common law may be adopted, so far as may be necessary to
prevent a failure of justice. .

SEC. 836. Until the legislature shall otherwise provide,
this code shall not effect proceedings to assess damages for
private property taken for public uses, nor proceedings
under the statutes for the settlement of estates of deceased
persons, nor proceedings under statutes relating to apprentices, bastardy, insolvent debtors or any special statutory
remedy not heretofore obtained by action; but such proceedings may be prosecuted under the code Whenever it is
applicable.

SEC. 837. Where, by general or special statute, a civil
action, legal or equitable, is given, and theQiode of proceeding therein is prescribed, this code shall not effect the
proceedings under such statute, until the legislature shall
otherwise provide; but in all such cases, as far as it may be
consistant with the statute giving such action, and practicable
under this code, the proceedings shall be conducted in
conformity thereto. ‘Where the statute designates, by name
or otherwise, the kind of action, but does not prescribe the
mode of proceeding therein, such action shall be commenced
and prosecuted in conformity to this code; ‘where the
statute gives an action, but does not designate the kind of
action, or prescribe the mode of proceeding therein, such
action shall be held to be the civil action of this code, and

proceeded in accordingly.

Dejin.-Mons.

SEC. 838. ‘The general terms, “whoever,’ “ any
person,” “ any one,” and the relative pronouns, “he,” and
“they,” as referring to these terms, include females as well
as males, unless there is some express declaration to the
contrary. The word “man” is used to signify a male
person of -any age, and the word “woman” a female
person of any age.

SEC. 839. The use of any word expressive of relation- I
ship, state, condition, office or trust of any person, as of

"parent, child, ascendant, descendant, minor, infant, ward,

guardian, or the like, or of the relative pronoun “he," or
“ they," in reference thereto, includes both males and
females.

SEC. 840. The use of the singular number includes the
plural, and the plural the singular, and the words used in
the masculine gender include the feminine also, unless by
reasonable construction that such was not the intention of
the language.

SEC. 841. Whenever any property or interest is
intended to be protected by a provision of the civil code,
and the general term “ person," or any other general term
is used to designate the party whose property is intended to
be protected, Che provisions of the civil code, and the
protection thereby given, shall extend to the property of the
territory, or of any county, and of all public or private
corporations.

SEC. 842. The word “ writing ” includes printing; the
word “ oath ” includes aflirmation.

SEC. 843. The word “signature” includes the mark
of a person unable to write his name; a mark shall have
the same effect as a signature, when the name is written by
some other person and the mark is made near thereto by the
person unable to write his name.

SEC. 844. Except where a word, term or phrase is
specially defined, all words used in this code are to be taken
and construed in the sense in which they are understood in
common language, taking into consideration the context and
subject matter relative to which they are employed.

Dismissal.

SEC. 845. The plaintid may, at any time in vacation
or in term, without prejudice to a future action, dismiss any
action he may [have] commenced by paying to the clerk the
costs that may have already accrued and the fee for entering
the dismissal : Provided, That if such dismissal be after
the defendant has put in an answer claiming atiirmative
judgment or relief, such defendant shall be allowed to
prosecute such claim to judgment.

SEC. 846. The provisions of sections four hundred and
seventy-five, four hundred and seventy-six, and four hundred
and sixty-seven of this act, shall apply as well to cases now
in judgment in the several district courts of this territory,
as those hereafter to be determined, and in all such cases
the time required by said sections in which to file with said
clerk the request—-required by section four hundred and
seventy-five, the showing required by section four hundred
and seventy-six or the bond required by section four hundred
and seventy-seven shall be deemed to have expired with the
twentieth day after the passage of this act and its approval.

SEC. 847. When audgment is recovered against one or
more of several persons jointly indebted up'on an obligation,
by proceeding as provided in this code, those who were not
originally served with the summons and did not appear to
the action, may be summoned to show cause why they should
not be bound by thejudgment in the same manner as though
they had been originally served with the summons. i

SEC. 848. The summons as provided in the preceding
section, shall describe the judgment and require the person
summoned to show cause why he should not be bound by it,
and shall be served in the same manner and returnable
within the same time as the original summons. It shall not
be necessary to file a new complaint.

SEC. 849. The summons shall be accompanied by an
afiidavit of the plaintiff, his agent, representative or attorney,
that the judgment or some part thereof, remains unsatished,
and shall specify the amount due thereon.

SEC. 850. Upon such summons, the defendant may
answer within the time specified therein, denying the judgment or setting up any defense which may have arisen
subsequently, or he may deny his liability on the obligation
upon which the judgment was recovered.

, SEC. 851. If the defendant, in his answer, deny the
judgment, or set up any defense which may have arisen
subsequently, the summons, with the aiiidavit annexed, and
the answers shall constitute the written allegations in the
case. If he deny his liability on the obligation upon which

the judgment was recovered, a copy of the original complaint and judgment, the summons, with the affidavit
annexed, and the answer shall constitute such written
allegations.

SEC. 852. The issues formed may be tried as in other
cases, but when the defendant denies, in his answer, any
liability on the obligation upon which the judgment was
rendered, if a verdict be found against him, it shall be for
the amount remaining unsatisfied on such original judgment!
with interest thereon.

SEC. 853. For the purpose of proceeding under the
provisions of this code, the terms “real estate," “real

7

property” and “ realty’ shall include mines, mining
property, possessory right to lands, and all other property
of a fixed and immovable nature, whither the same be of the
class or classes above enumerated, or of other classes or
kinds of property.

SEC. 854. This act shall take effect and be in force on
and after the first day of January, A. D. one thousand

eight hundred and seventy.

