Sec. 2. The rule of the common law, that statutes in Provis's of the
code to be liberderogation thereof are to be strictly construed, has no appli- "-"y conetruM.
cation to this coda Its provisions and all proceedings under
it shall be liberally construed, with a view to promote its
object, and assist the parties in obtaining justice.
Sec. 3. The distinctions between actions at law, and the Distinction 
tween actions
forms oi all such actions ana suits heretofore existing, are at law and the
^ t
forms of such
abolished; and there shall be hereafter but one form of action, actions aboiwhich shall be the civil action.
Sec. 4. In all actions, the party complaining shall be Plaintiff and
-, ,. n defendant.
known as the plaintiff, and the adverse party as the defend
ant.
Sec. 5. There can be no feigned issues; but a question No feigned is<.
..
iiiT
i
-ii
sues, bill quesoi fact; not put in issue bv the pleadings, may be tried by a tions of faciust in issue bv
jury upon an order for the trial, stating distinctly and plainly the pleadings
the question of fact to be tried, and such order is the only etc-

authority necessary for a trial.
Time of Commencing Civil Action*.
Not
to uppiy to
SEC. 6. This title shall not apply
to actions already ccmractions comi i ..
menccd.
menced, but the statutes now in force shall Ik' applicable to
such cases, according to the subject of the action, and without
regard to form.
civil actions to
Sec. 7. Civil actions can only be commenced within the
be commenced
K-ithin
periods
periods
prescribed
in this title, after the cause of action shall
prescribed, Ac. x
l
have accrued; but where, in special cases, a different limita
tion is prescribed by statute, the action may be commenced
accordingly.
Action* for the Recovery of Real Property.
Real property.

Sec. 8. An action for the recovery of the title or possess
ion of lands, tenements or hereditaments, can only be brought
within twenty-one years after the cause of action shall have
accrued.
lu'.'of lt°" ?tut" ^EC. !'. If a person entitled to commence any action for
the recovery of the title or possession of any lands, tenements,
or hereditaments, be, at the time his or her right or title shall
first descend or accrue, within the age of twenty-one years, a
married woman, insane or imprisoned, every such' person may
after the expiration of twenty-one years from the time his or
her right or title first descended or accrued, bring such action
within ten years after such disability is removed, and at no
time thereafter.
anTdetiliner.1'5
An action for the forcible entry and detainer, or forcible
and unlawful detention only of real property, can only be
brought within two years after the cause of such action shall
have accrued.
Actions other than for the Recovery of Real Property.
Sec. 10. Civil actions, other than for the recovery of real
property, can only be brought within the following periods,
after the cause of action shall have accrued:
Fifteen years.
Within fifteen years : An action upon a speciality, or any
agreement, contract or promise in writing, or on a foreign

Six years.

Sec. 12. Within four years : An action for trespass upon f'our year?.
real property; an action for taking, detaining or injuring
personal property, including actions for the specific recovery
of personal property, an action for injury to the rights of the
plaintiff not arising on contract and not hereinafter enu
merated ; an action for relief on the ground of fraud, but the
cause of action in such case shall not be deemed to have ac
crued until the discovery of the fraud.
Sec. 13. Within one year : An action for libel, slander, One
assault and battery, malicious prosecution or false imprison
ment ; an action upon a statute for a penalty or forfeiture ;
but where the statute giving such action prescribes a different
limitation, the action may be brought within the period so

year.

limited.
Sec. 14. Within ten years : An action upon the official Ten y<
bond or undertaking of an executor, administrator, guardian,
sheriff or other officer ; or upon the bond or undertaking
given in attachment, injunction, arrest or any case whatever
required by statute.
Sec. 1.5. An action for relief of any character not herein
before provided for, can only be brought within ten ye;)ars
after the cause of action shall have accrued.
Sec. 16. If a person entitled to bring any action men- May he com
menced
lueuceu n ft IT
tioned in this title, other than for the recoverv of real pro- duabini;V Is IVluOVl
moved.
perty, and except for a penalty or forfeiture, be at the time
the cause of action accrued, within the age of twenty-one
years, a married woman insane or imprisoned, every such
person shall be entitled to bring such action within the res
pective times limited by this title after such disability shall
be removed.
Sec. 17. An action shall be deemed commenced within when ac..
t i <> n
leentthe meaning of this title, as to each defendant, at the date of edcrommenced.
the summons which is served on him, or on a co-defendant
who is a joint contractor, or otherwise united in the interest
with him ; where service by publication is proper, the action
shall be deemed commenced at the date of the first publica
tion, which publication must be regularly made.
An attempt to commence an action shall be deemed equivalent to the commencement thereof, within the meaning of this
title, when the party faithfully, properly and diligently,
endeavors to procure a service. But such attempt must be
followed by service within sixty days.
Action against gj,;c. 18. If, when a cause of action accrues against a perpcraon out of
or
the Territory, son, }je ke ou(: 0f ^ne Territory, or shall have absconded or
concealed himself, the period limited for the commencement
of the action shall not begin to run until he comes into the
Territory, or while he is absconded or concealed ; and if, after
the cause of action accrues, he depart from the Territory, or
abscond or conceal himself, the time of such absence or con
cealment shall not be computed as any part of the period
within which the action must be brought.
tween°non<-res^EC- ^' Where the cause of action has arisen in another
idents.
state or country between non-residents of this Territory, -and
by the laws of the state or country where the cause of action
arose, an action cannot be maintained thereon by reason of
lapse of time, no action can be maintained thereon in this
Territory.
Sec. 20. If an action""be commenced within due time, and
a judgment therein for the plaintiff be reversed, or if a plain
tiff fail in such action otherwise than upon the merits, and
the time limited for the same shall have expired, the plaintiff,
or, if he die, and the cause of action survive, his representa
tives may commence a new action, within one year after such
reversal or failure.
Sec. 21. In any case founded on contract, when any part
of the principal or interest shall have been paid, or an
acknowledgment of an existing liability, debt, or claim or any
promise to pay the same, shall have been made, an action
may be brought on such case within the period prescribed for
the same, after such payment, acknowledgment or promise,
but such acknowledgment or promise must be in writing,
signed by the party to bo charged thereby.
Sec. 23. In case of an assignment of a thing in action,
the action by the assignee shall be without prejudice to any
set-off or other defense now allowed ; but this section shall
not apply to negotiable bonds, promissory notes, or bills of
exchange, transferred in good faith and upon good consider
ation, before due.
Sec. 24. An executor, administrator, guardian, trustee of Executor, ati,
min is t rat or.
an express trust, a person to whom or in whose name a con- guardian, etc.
tract is made for the benefit of another, or a person expressly
authorized by statute, may bring an action, without joining
with him the person for whose benefit it is prosecuted ; officers
may sue and be sued in such name as is authorized by law,
and official bonds may be sued upon in the same way.
Sec. 25. When a married woman is a party, her husband Husband shall
shall be joined with her, except that :
'vn^exc^u"^.
First, When the action concerns her separate property,
she may sue alone ;
Second, When the action is between herself and husband,
she may sue or be sued alone.
Sec. 26. If a husband and wife be sued together, the if husband and
wife may defend her own right ; and if the husband neglect
to defend, she may defend for his right also.
Sec. 27. The action of an infant must be brought by his suit for infant
guardian or next friend. When the action is brought by his by guardian,
next friend, the court has power to dismiss it, if it is not for
the benefit of the infant, or to substitute the guardian of the
infant, or any other person, as the next friend.
Sec. 28. The guardian or next friend is liable for the Guardian lia'ie
costs of the action brought by him, and when be is insolvent,
the court may require security for them. Either may be a
witness in an action brought by him.
Sec. 29. The defense of an infant must be by a guardian infant must dcfor the suit, who may be appointed by the court in which the dian. '
action is prosecuted, or by a judge thereof, or by a probate
judge. The appointment cannot be made until after service
of the summons in the action, as directed in this Code.
Sec. 30. The appointment may be made upon the appli-
mliii'i'm' 2 cation of the infant, if he be of the age of fourteen years, and
cation .ii mi i. apply within twenty days after the return of the summons.
If he be under the age of fourteen, or neglect so to apply, the
appointment may be made upon the application of any friend
of the infant, or on that of the plaintiff in the action.
ah pcrs'a tiavSec. 31. All persons having an interest in the subject of
inir an interest
must be plain- the action and in obtaining the relief demanded, may be
joined as plaintiffs, except as otherwise provided in this
title.
rartics to the
Sec. 32. Of the parties to the action, those who are united
in interest must be joined as plaintiffs or defendants, but if
the consent of one who should have been joined as plaintiff,
cannot be obtained, he may be made a defendant, the reason
being stated in the petition.
<jtifK'n
of comSec. 33. When the question is one of• a common or genmon Interest or
parties
veryeral
interest of many
persons, or when the parties
are very
numerous.
J l
\
i
numerous, and it may be impracticable to bring them all be
fore the court, one or more may sue or defend for the benefit
of all.
Persons severSkc. 34. Persons severally liable upon the same obligaallv liable may
J
i
o
s'i'me"-ieti!mln *'<m 01' instrument, including the parties to bills of exchange
and promissory notes, may, all or any of them, be included
in the same action, at the option of the plaintiff.
Actum does not
Sec. 35. An action does not abate by the death, marrlbate. elc.
.
riage, or other disability of a party, or by the transfer of any
interest therein, during its pendency, if the cause of action
survive or continue. In case of the marriage of a female party,
the fact being suggested on the record, the husband may be
made a party with his wife; and in the case of the death or other
disabibility of a party, the court may allow the action to con
tinue by or against his representative or successor in interest.
In case of any other transfer of interest, the action may be
continued in the name of the original party; or the court may
allow the person to whom the transfer is made to be substi
tuted in the action.
! 0,,',!7.J,""V, i't
Sec. 36. The court may determine any controversy bei\ve!'i'i'VpaHies! tween parties before it, when it can be done without prejudice
to the rights of others, or by saving their rights ; but when
a determination of the controversy can not he had without tlie presence of other parties, the court must order them to
be brought in.
Sec. 37. When an action is for the recovery of real or Any per soh
having an inpersonal property, any person having an interest m the iiwt my inproperty, applies to he made a party, the court may order it
to be done.
Sec. 88. Upon the affidavit of a defendant before answer a third party
ma y a p |> c a r
in an action upon contract, or tor the recovery of personal and be made a party, or may
property, that some third party, without collusion with him, <x•. bnn-ed wi.ii
' out being mndr
has or makes a claim to the subject of the action, and that heRDurt>'is ready to pay or dispose of the same as the court may
direct, the court may make an order for the safe keeping, or
for payment, or deposit in court, or delivery of the subject of
the action, to such person as it may direct, and an order
requiring such third party to appear in a reasonable time and
maintain or relinquish his claim against the defendant. If
such third party, being served with a copy of the order by the
sheriff or such other person as the court may direct, fail to
appear, the court may declare him barred of all claim in ref
erence to the subject of the action, against the defendant
therein. If such third party appear, he shall be allowed to
make himself defendant in the action, in lieu of the original
defendant, who shall be discharged from all liability to either
of the other parties in respect to the subject of the action,
upon his compliance with the order of the court for the pay
ment, deposit or delivery thereof.
Sec. ;i'.>. The provisions of the last section shall be ap- Foregoing -l.<•.

'i-111 applies lo

pheable to an action brought against a sheriff, or other officer, sheriiis.
for the recoveiy of personal property taken by him under
execution, or for the proceeds of such property so taken and,
sold by him. And the defendant in such action shall be
entitled to the benefit of those provisions against the party in
whose favor the execution issued, upon exhibiting to the
court the process under which he acted, with his affidavit that
the property for the recovery of which or its proceeds, the
action is brought, was taken under such process.
Sec. 40. In an action against a sheriff, or other officer, Action againsi
for the recovery of property taken under an execution, and pcrson^ubsnreplevied by the plaintiff in such action, the court may, upon ant':" as |u'f"''1'
application of the defendant, and of the party in whose favor
the execution issued, permit the latter to be substituted as the
defendant, security for the cost being given.
TITLE IV.
The County in which Actions are to be brought.
Action mnstbe
Sec. 41. Actions for the following causes must be brought
brought in the
co'ty
in
which
in
the county
subject
of the action is situated.
the subject of
• . in which the

the
action is except
as il
provided
m section forty-two
:
situated.
First. For the recovery of real property, or of an estate or
interest therein.
Second. For the partition of real property.
Third. For the sale of real property, under a mortgage,
lien, or other incumbrance or charge.
Sec. 42. If the real property, the subject of the action.
be an entire tract, and situated in two or more counties, or
if it consists of separate tracts situated in two or more
counties, the action may be brought in any county in which
any tract or part thereof is situated, unless it be an action to
recover the possession thereof; and if the property be an
entire tract, situated in two or more counties, an action to
recover the possession thereof may be brought in either of
such counties; but if it consist of separate tracts in different
counties, the possession of such tracts must be recovered by
separate actions brought in the counties where they are
situated.
Sec. 43. An action to compel the specific performance
of a contract of sale of real .estate may be brought in the
county where the defendants, or any of them, reside.
Action must be
^EC- ^' Actions for the following causes must be brought
where the'eau'e m tnc county where the cause, or some part thereof, arose :
-faction arose.
Ytr.it, An action for the recovery of a fine, forfeiture or
penalty imposed by a statute; except, when it is imposed for
an offense committed on a river, or other stream of water, or
road, which is the boundary of two or more counties, the
action may be brought in any county bordering on such river,
water-course or road, and opposite to the place where the
offense was committed ;
Second, An action against a public officer for an act done by him in virtue or under color of his office, or for a neglect
of his official duty;
Third. An action on the official bond or undertaking of a
public officer,
Sec. 45. An action other than one of those mentioned in Actions again't
cor pora 1 1 o n 5
the first three sections or this chapter, against a corporation and insuranc

compan'sbro't.
created by the laws of this Territory may be brought in the etc.
county in which it is situated, or has its principal office or
place of business ; but if such corporation be an insurance
company, the action may be brought in the county where the
cause of action, or some part thereof, arose.
Sec. 46. An action against a railroad company, or an Actions agai'nt
owner of a line of mail stages, or other coaches, for an etc., whfrs
brought.
injury to person or property upon the road or line, or upon
a liability as a carrier, may be brought in any county through
or into which said road or line passes.
Sec. 47. An action other than those mentioned in the
first three sections of this title, against a turnpike road
company, may be brought in any county in which any part
of the road lies.
Sec. 48. An action other than one of those mentioned in Actions ag'st

„ non-resident n
thetirst three sections ot tins title, against a non-resident or and foreign cor1 .
-li- porat's, where
this .territory or a foreign corporation, may be brought in brought.
any county in which there may be property of or debts owing
to said defendant, or where said defendant may be found; but
if a defendant be a foreign insurance company, the action
may be brought in any county where the cause, or some part
thereof, arose.
Sec. 49. Every other action must be brought in the
county in which the defendant, or sonic one of the defendants .
resides, or may be summoned.
Sec. 50. In all cases, in which it shall be made to appear c o u r t may
to the court, that a fair and impartial trial can not be had in place, etc.
the county where the suit is pending, the court may change
the place of trial to some adjoining county.
A civil action must be commenced by filing in £jw commea<;-
the office of the clerk of the proper court a petition, and
causing summons to be issued thereon.
Plaintiff must Sec. 52. The plaintiff shall, also, file with the clerk of
flic pnecipe. court, praecipe, stating the names of the parties to the action,
and demanding that a summons issue thereon.
Summons i h
• tied bv clerk

Sec. 53. The summons shall be issued by the clerk, shall
be under seal of the court from which the same shall issue,
and shall be signed by the clerk. Its style shall be, '•the
Territory of Wyoming,
county," and it shall be
dated the day it is issued. It shall be directed to the sheriff
of the county, and command him to notify the defendant or
defendants named therein that he or they have been sued, and
must answer the petition filed by the plaintiff (giving his
name) at the time stated therein, or the petition will be taken
as true, and judgment rendered accordingly, ai.d when the
action is for the recovery of money only, there shall be
indorsed on the writ the amount to be specified in the praecipe,
for which, with interest, judgment will be taken if the defend
ant fail to answer. If defendant fail to appear, judgment
shall not be rendered for a larger amount, and the costs.
Sec. 54. When the action is rightly brought in any county,
. "imj <mn \. accorjjng t0 the provisions of title four, a summons shall be
issued to any other county, against any one or more of the
defendants, at plaintiff's request.
Kumm's. when
Sec. 55. Where the time for bringing parties into court
Knuruable.
is not fixed by statute, the summons shall be returnable on
the second Monday after the day of its date; but where it is
issued to any other than the county in which the action is
brought, it may be made returnable, at the option of the
party having it issued, on the third or fourth Monday after
its date. It shall state the day of the month on which it is
returnable.
Sec. 56, When a writ is returned "not summoned," other
Other writs
may bo issued.
writs may be issued, until the defendant or defendants shall
be summoned; and when defendants reside in different coun
ties, writs may be issued to such counties at the same time.

summon,, how

SEC. 57i

Actual Service of Summons.
Th<? summons ,,l1;ln \>e served by the officer to
,whom it is directed, who shall indorse on the original writ,
She time and manner of service. It may also be served by
«ny person not a party to the action, appointed by the officer
to whom it is directed. The authority of such person shall
3>e indorsed on the writ, and when the writ Is served by a
person appointed by the officer to whom it is directed, or
'when the service is made out of this Territory, the return
•shall be verified by an oath or affirmation.
Sec. 8. The service shall be by delivering a copy of the
summons to the defendant personally, or by leaving one at
his usual place of residence, with some member of his family
•or other person in his employ over the age of fifteen (15)
years, to whom the contents shall be exposed, at any time
before the return day.
Pec. ~>9. In ail cases the return must state the time and What n-im-n
suanner of service.
Sec. 0. The officer to whom the summons is directed
inust return the same at or before the time therein stated.
Sec. 01. An acknowledgment on the back of the, sum
mons, or the voluntary appearance of a defendant, is equiva
lent to service.
Sec. 2. A summons against a corporation may be served Suismoi.*n^vt
iinion the president, mayor, chairman of the board of directors ma>' t"' -,,'v<-'|
*
...
°1K
or trustees, or other chief officer; or if its chief officer is not
found in the county, upon its cashier, treasurer, secretary,
.clerk or managing agent ; or if none of the aforesaid officers
van be found, by a copy left at the office or last usual place
of business or such corporation.
Sec. 53. When the defendant is an incorporated insurance
.company, and the action is brought in a county in which
there is an agency thereof, the service may be upon the chief
officer of such agency.
Sec. 1. When the defendant is a foreign corporation
having an agent in this Territory, the service may be made
upon such agent.
Sec. 8. When the defendant is a minor under the age service in msc
of fourteen years, the service must be upon him, and upon"
his guardian or father ; or, if neither of these can be found,
then upon his mother, or the person having the care or control of the infant, or with whom he lives. If neither of these
can be found, or if the minor be more than fourteen years of
age, service on him alone shall be sufficient. The manner
of service may he the same as in the case of adults.
Con gtructive Service.
u<'iit'im.'.'y ''"'" Sec. 66. Service may be made by publication in either
of the following eases :
Firnt. Tn actions brought under the 41st, 42nd and 4;!<l
sections of this code, when any or all of the defendants reside
Out of the Territory.
Second. In actions brought to establish or set aside a
will, where any or all of the defendants reside out of the
Territory.
Third. In actions brought against a non-resident of this
Territory, or a foreign corporation having in this Territory,
property or debts owing to them, sought to be taken b}* anv
of the provisional remedies, or to be appropriated in anv
way.
Fourth. In actions which relate to, or the subject of
which is, real or personal property in this Territory, where
any defendant has or claims a lien or interest, actual or con
tingent, therein, or the relief demanded consists wholly or
partially in excluding him from any interest therein, and
such defendant is a non-resident of the Territory, or a foreign
corporation.
Fifth. In all actions where the defendant; being a resi
dent of the Territory, has departed therefrom, or from the
county of his residence, with intent to delay or defraud his
creditors, or to avoid the service of a summons, or keeps him
self concealed therein with the like intent.
Affidavit mtift gEC- 67. Before service can be made bv publication, an
affidavit must be filed that service of a summons cannot be
made Within this Territory on the defendant or defendants tobe served by publication, and that the case is one of those
mentioned in the preceding section. When snch affidavit is
filed the party may proceed *o make service by publication.
Pnbik-a.'n ^ix Sec. 68. The publication must be made six- consecutive
weeks in some newspaper printed in the county wfcpve the
petition is filed, if there bo any printed in such county ; and
if there be not, in some newspaper printed in this Territory,
of general circulation in that county. It must contain a
.summary statement of the object and prayer of the petition,
mention the court wherein it is filed, and notify the person
or persons thus to be served when they are required to
answer.
Sec. <>'.>. Service by publication shall be deemed complete Pnbnc'n when
when it shall have been made in the manner and for the time*oinp1'''''"
prescribed in the preceding section : and such service shall
be proved by the affidavit of the printer, or his foreman or
principal clerk, or other person knowing the same.
Sec. 70. In all eases where service may be made bv Personal s«....
. vice out offerpublication, personal service 01 n copy ot the summons and ntory.
complaint may be made out of the Territory.
Sec. 71. A party against whom a judgment or order has a person aevi
whom h jnd'4been rendered, without other service than bv publication in a mem has been
.
rendered np<-u
newspaper, may, at anv time within three years after the pnbUeatn may
date of the ^judgment
or order, have the same opened,
and be 0,1>l,'"'<l
wi|uin
three y-eaiv.elc.
let in to defend. Before the judgment or order shall be
opened, the applicant shall give notice to the adverse party
of his intention to make such application, and shall file a full
smswer to the petition, pay all costs, if the court require them
to be paid, and make it appear to the satisfaction of the
court, by affidavit, that during the pendency of the action he
had no actual notice thereof in time to ajipear in court and
make his defense, but the title to any property, the subject
of the judgment or order sought to be opened, which by it.
or in consequence of it shall have passed to a purchaser in
good faith, shall not be affected by any proceedings under
this section, nor shall they affeet the title of any property
sold before judgment under an attachment.
The adverse
party, on the hearing of an application to open a judgment,
'.': order, as provided by this section, shall be allowed to pre
sent counter affidavits, to show that during the pendency of
the action the applicant had notice thereof in time to appear
in court and make his defense.
Sec. 72. In actions where it shall be necessary to make Activ in ease*
the heirs or devisees of any decease! person defendants, and *eirs!"'
it shall appear, by the affidavit of the plaintiff annexed to his
petition, that the names of such heirs or devisees, or any of
them, and their residence, are unknown to the plaintiff, pro
ceedings may be had against such unknown heirs or devisees,
without naming them, and the court shall make such order
respecting service as may be deemed proper, if service by
publication be ordered, the publication shall not be less than
six weeks'.
VIhtu i*m mtSec. 73. When the action is against two or more defendK of defend,
i n i
V
ii
n .ants lire served ants, and one or more shall have been served, but not all ot
Villi nroe'ess.
1
.
f .
them, the plaintiff may proceed as follows :
Firxt. If the action be against defendant* jointly indebted
upon contract, he may proceed against the defendants served.
unless the court otherwise direct.
Second, If the action be against defendants severally liable,
he may, without prejudice to his rights against those not
served, proceed against the defendants served in the same*
manner as if they were the only defendants.
Process as t<Sec. 74. When the summons has been served, or publicathird |>erst>ns.
tion made, the action is pending, so as to charge think
person's with notice of its pendency, and while pending m*
interest can be acquired by third persons in the subject-mat
ter thereof, as against the plaintiffs title.
Sndguitt't must
Sec. 75. When any pari of real property, the subject-'
be recorded to
, .
.
hind real <:s- matter oi an action, is situated m anv other county or comi
tate out of the
-ounty.
ties than the one m which the action is brought, a certified
copy of the judgment in such action must be recorded in the,
register of deeds office of such other county or counties, before
it shall operate therein as notice, so as to charge third:
persons, as provided in the preceding section.
It shall
operate as such notice without record in the county where it
is rendered ; but this section shall not apply to actions or
proceedings under any statute in force prior to the passage
of this act, -which does not require such record.
First. The same transaction or transactions connected with
the same subject of action ;
Second, Contracts, express or implied ;
Third, Injuries, with or without force, to person and pro
perty, or either;
Fourth, Injuries to character ;
Fifth, Claims to recover real property, with or without
damages for the withholding thereof;
Sixth, Claims to recover the possession of personal pro
perty, with or without damages for the witholding thereof;
Seventh, Claims against a trustee by virtue of a contract,
or by operation of law ; Provided, That an action for
malicious arrest and prosecution, or either of them, may be
united with an action for either injury to character or to the
person.
Sec. 77. The causes of action so united must atect all
the parties to the action, and not require different phus of
trial.
Sec. 78. The pleadings are the written statement:- V the
parties of the facts constituting their respective cla:
DHl
defenses.
Sec. 79. The rules of pleading heretofore existing ii< '-nil
sictions are abolished; and hereafter the forms of ph'in!i:i'.? ii;
civil actions in courts of record, and the rule. i.v which
their sufficiency may be determined, are those prescribed bv
this code.
Sec. 80. The only pleadings allowed arc :
First. The petition by the plaintiff;
Second, The answer or demurrer by the defendant ;
Third, The demurrer or reply by the plaintiff;
Fourth, The demurrer to the reply by the defendant.
Sec. 81. The petition must contain,
what tin- pcitFirst. The name of the court and the county in which the <"<naction is brought, and the names of the parties, plaintiff and
defendant, followed by the word "Petition."
Second, A statement of facta constituting the cause of
action, in ordinary and concise language, and without repe
tition.
Third, A demand of the relief to which a party supposes
himself entitled. If the recovery of money is demanded, the
amount thereof shall he stated; and if interest thereon be'
claimed, the time fiom which interest is to be computed, shall
also be stated ;
Fourth, When the petition contains more than one cause
of action, each shall be separately stated and numbered.
Demurrer.
tih- demurrer.

Sec. 85. Tlie defendant may demur to the petition within
the time required in the summons to answer, when it appears
upon the face thereof; either,
First, That the court has no jurisdiction of the person of
the defendant, or of the subject of the action; or,
Second, That the plaintiff has not the legal capacity to
sue ;
Third, That there is another action pending between the
same parties for the same cause; o-r,
Fourth, That there is a defect or misjoinder of parties,
plaintiff or defendant ; or,
Fifth, That several causes of action have been improperly
nnited ; or,
Sixth, That the petition dees not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action.
Demurrer -haii Sec. 86. The demurrer shall specify distinctly the grounds
cpcc'v grounds of objection, oi objection to the petition.
Unless it do so it shall "be
regarded as objecting only that the petition does not state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.
When Objection may be Taken by Answer, when Deemed
Waived.
Onjeirtionmnst
Sec. 87. ,When any of the defects enumerated in section
ru- taken hv demrarrer or seventy-six do not appear upon the lace oi the petition the
Uu^W'T.
objection maybe taken by answer; and if no objection be
taken either by demurrer or answer, the defendant shall be
deemed to have waived the same, except only the objection to
the jurisdiction of the court, and that the petition does not state the facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.
Sec. 88. When a demurrer is sustained on the ground w,u:u demur&
rcr is *n*tantof misjoinder of several causes of action, the court, on motion edof the plaintiff, shall allow him without costs, to file several
petitions, each including such of said causes of action as
might have been joined ; and an action shall be docketed for
each of said petitions, and the same shall he proceeded in
without further service.
Sec. 89. The defendant may demur to one or more of the May demur ami
"
answer at sanu
several causes of action stated in the petition, and answer as '»-l..
to the residue.
Answer.
Sec. 90. The answer shall contain :
™^han dm"First, A general or specific denial of each material allega- """tion of the petition controverted by the defendant ;
Second, A statement of any new matter constituting a
defense, counter-claim or set-off, in ordinary and concise
language and without repetition.
Sec. 91. The defendant may set forth in his answer as Dim-rent w'<\,
of defense.
many grounds of defense, counter-claim and set-on as he may
have. Each must bo separately stated and numbered, and
they must refer in an intelligible manner to the cause of action
which they are intended to answer.
Sec. 92. The counter-claim mentioned in the last section counter-claim,
must be one existing in favor of a defendant, and against a
plaintiff, between whom a several judgment might bo had in
the action, and arising out of the contract or transaction set
forth in the petition as the foundation of the plaintiff's claim,
or connected with the subject of the action.
Sec. 93. If the defendant omit to set up the counter- u defendant
claim or set-off, he cannot recover costs against the plaintiff Shan "''not ' re
in any subsequent action thereon ; but this section shall not
apply to causes of action which are stricken out of or arc
withdrawn from the answer, as provided in sections ninetyfour and one hundred and sixteen.
Sec. 94. When it appears that a new party is necessary When new
....
.
. .
\
' party is necesto a final decision upon the counter-claim, the court may "my upon
.
iii
counter-claim.
either permit the new party to be made, by a summons to
reply to the counter-claim, or may direct the counter-claim to be stricken out of the answer and made the subject of a
separate action,
set-oiv.
Sec. 95. A set-off can only be pleaded in an action
founded on contract, and must be a cause of action arising:
upon contract, or ascertained by the decision of the court.
Winn new
Sec. 96. When it appears that a new party is necessarv
party, to set-off.
to a nnal decision upon the set-on, the court shall permit the
new party to be made, if it also appear that, owing to the
insolvency or non-residence of the plaintiff, or other cause,
the defendant will be in danger of losing his claim, unless
permitted to use it as a set-off.
when cross aoSec. 97. When cross-demands have existed between permamUhaveexistcd. etc.
sons under such circumstances, that if one had brought an
action against the other, a connter-elaim or set-off could have
been set up, neither can be deprived of the benefit thereof
by the assignment or death of the other, but the two
demands must be deemed compensated, so far as they equal
each other,
rdian or
Sec. 98. The guardian of an infant or person of unsound
attorney shall
mind, or attorney for a person in prison, shall deny in the
deny. etc.
answer all material allegations of the petition prejudicial to
such defendant.
ih'pljl.
Sec 99. The plaintiff may demur to one or more of the
defenses set up in the answer, stating in his demurrer the
grounds thereof: and where the answer contains new matter,
the plaintiff may reply to stick new matter, denying generally
or specifically, each allegation controverted by him ; and he
may allege in ordinary and concise language, and without repe
tition, any new matter not inconsistent with the petition,,
constituting an answer in law to such new matter. To this
reply the defendant may demur.
General Huh* of Pleading.
't'fn • ;m*\rer or
deluurre
Ik- "Twhtn"
lil.d '
Sec. 100. The answer or demurrer bv the defendant
shall be filed on or before the third Saturday, and the reply
or demurrer by the plaintiff on or before the fifth Saturday
after the return day of the summons or service by publica
tion.
Sec. 101. The court or the judge thereof in vacation, for court may exgood cause shown, may extend the time for filing an answer
or reply, upon such terms as may he just.
Sec. 102. Every pleading in a court of record must be Pleading must
subscribed by the party or his attorney. Any party may, in
all cases in which he would have the right to use the deposi
tion of an adverse party, whether plaintiff or defendant, also
annex to his pleading, other than a demurrer, interrogatories May file interpertinent to the case, which interrogatories, if not demurred pleading,
to, shall be plainly and fully answered under oath. When
annexed to the petition, they shall be answered within the
time limited for answer to the petition ; when annexed to the
answer, they shall be answered within the time limited for
reply ; when annexed to the reply, they shall be answered
within the period allowed for answers to petitions in general ;
but further time may be allowed in any case, by the court
or judge in vacation. Answers to interrogatories may be en- Answer to inforced by non-suit, judgment by default, or by attachment, sis mTy^be' oVthe justice of the ease may require.
On the trial such as evidence.'
answer may he used as evidence by either party.
Sec. 103. In all actions, allegations of the execution of written mst re
written instruments and indorsements thereon, of the exist- taken as true,
unless denied
ence ot a corporation or co-partnership, or ot any appoint- under oath.
ment or authority, shall be taken as true, unless the denial
of the same be verified by the affidavit of the party, his agent
or attorney.
Sec. 104. The verification mentioned in the last section noes not apply
shall not be required to the answer of a guardian defending
for an infant, or person of unsound mind, or a person im
prisoned.
Sec. 105. Tf there be several persons united in interest if aiidavit be
1
made, by one
and• pleading
together,
the affidavit mav be made bv anv one P.art-V
'* is "uffi
1
T
cient.
of such parties. When a municipal or other corporation is a
party, the verification may be made by an officer thereof, its
agent or attorney.
Sec. 106. The affidavit shall be sufficient if it state that Atnrts"t -nffl.
cient. ete.

the affiant believes the facts stated in the pleading to be
true.
Sec. 107. In all cases where the party 'pleading is a non-
Affidavit
may
be
filed before

resident of the county
J in -which the action is brought,
.
.or if he
pleading, eic. shall be absent from the county where the pleading is filed,
an affidavit made before filing the pleading, stating the sub
stance of the facts afterwards inserted in the pleading, shall
be a sufficient verification. Such affidavit shall be filed with
the pleading intended to be verified thereby.
affidavit "m™

Sec. 108. The affidavit verifying pleadings may be made
before any person before whom a deposition might be taken,
and must be signed by the party making the same ; and the
officer before whom the same was taken shall certify that it
was sworn to or affirmed before him, and signed in his pres
ence.
The certificate of such officer, signed official^ by
him, shall be evidence that the affidavit was duly made, that
the name of the officer was written by himself, and that he
was such officer.
verification
Sec. 109. The, verification of the. pleading
does not apply
does not apply
°
u '
tclaimed
o amount
to
the
amount
claimed,
except
in
actions
founded
on contracts,
except
A
>,tcexpress or implied, for the payment of money only,
be?'"made °'Vy
Seg- 110- Wnen the affidavit is made by the agent or
m'v'mi'i'y ot'°r attorney, it must set forth the reason why it is not made
by the party himself.
It can be made by the agent or
attorney only :
First, When the facts are within the knowledge of the
agent or attorney.
Second, When the plaintiff is an infant, or of unsound
mind, or imprisoned.
Third, When the pleading to be verified is founded upon a
written instrument, for the payment of money only, and such
instrument is in the possession of the agent or attorney.
Fourth, When the party is not a resident of, or is absent
from the county.
Hiwl2sustruedi
^Kc- ^ • *n tue construction of any pleading, for the
purpose of determining its effect, its allegation shall be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between
the parties.
Fid ions aboiSec. 112. All fictions in pleadings are abolished.
T i t. 1 <•
changed

t

Sec. 113.
of its stages.
Sec. 114.

The title of .a cause shall not be changed in any
If • the action, counter-claim, or
founded on account, or on a note, bill or other written instru- if action ot <ief <Ml s o he on
ment,7 as evidence of indebtedness, a copy
thereof must be written
instral "
inent.copy m *t
attached to and filed with the pleading. If not so attached i>0 filed. "
and filed,' the reason thereof must be shown in the pleading.
irrelevant mstL
°
ter str cken out
Sec. 115. If redundant, scandalous or irrelevant matter Pieadrgsmade
more certain.

be inserted in any pleading, it may be stricken out, on motion
of the party prejudiced thereby, and when the allegations of
a pleading are so indefinite and uncertain that the precise
nature of the charge or defense is not apparent, the court
may, on motion, require the pleading to be made definite and
certain by amendment.
Sec. 116. The court, at any time before the final sub- Defendant may
...
* ,. ,
. „
-.
withdraw demission ot the cause, on motion of the defendant, may allow a tense, and it
may be docket counter-claim or set-off, set up in the answer, to be with- <'d as original
1
case.

drawn, and the same may become the subject of another
action. On motion of either party, to be made at the time
such counter-claim or set-off is withdrawn, an action on the
same shall be docketed, and proceeded in as in like cases after
process served ; and the court shall direct the time and man
ner of pleading therein. If the action be not so docketed, itmay afterwards be commenced in the ordinary way.
Sec. 117. In pleading a judgment or other determination in pleading s

j u d g m e n 1.
of a court or officer, ot special jurisdiction, it shall be sufficient what sufficient.
to state that such judgment or determination was duly given
or made.
If such allegation be controverted, the party
pleading must establish, on the trial, the facts confering
jurisdiction.
Sec. 118. In pleading the performance of conditions pre- in pleading j
.
.
i
«• •
ii
contract. what
cedent in a contract, it shall he sufficient to state that the *utHeient.
party duly performed all the conditions on his part ; and if
such allegation be controverted, the party pleading must
establish, on the trial, the facts showing such performance.
Sec. 119. In an action, counter claim or set-off, founded in a«t4on. <<oim
'
ter-elaini. or
upon an account, promissory note, bill of exchange or other Bet-off, founded
1
.
. "i"111 (,n
;,<'instrument, for the unconditional payment of monev only, it count , note or
1

■

ot her lustru-

shall be sufficient for the party to give a copy of the account {^'"{^'If<.!!,'"'
or instrument, with all credits and indorsements thereon, and*'"'to state that there is due to him on such account or instru
ment, from the adverse party, a specified sum, which he claims, with interest. When others than the makers of a
promissory note or the acceptors of a bill of exchange, are
parties in the actions, it shall be necessary to state also the
kind of liability of the several parties, and the facts, as they
may be, which ftx their liability.
Pleading a priSec. 120. In pleading a private statute, or a right devato statute
.
rived therefrom, it shall be sufficient to refer to such statute
by its title, and the day of its passage, and the court theieupon shall take judicial notice thereof.
i.ibci or eiinSec. 121. In action for a libel or slander, it shall be suf
ficient to state, generally, that the defamatory matter was
published or spoken of the plaintiff, and if the allegation be
denied, the plaintiff must prove on trial, the facts showing
that the defamatory matter was published or spoken of him.
in nbci or *ianSec. 122. Tn the actions mentioned in the last section.
ani'mav aiu-v the defendants may allege the truth of the matter changed as
tin' trnih :hk1
....
prove it.
defamatory, and may prove the same, and any mitigating cir
cumstances to reduce the amount of damages, or he may
prove either.
Keiii property.
Sec. 123. In an action for the recovery of real property,
it shall be described with sufficient certainty to enable an offi
cer holding an execution to identify it.
am material
Sec. 124. Every material allegation of the petition not
iilleiraiioit-*.n"t
, ,
,
-.
. . ..
.
0
con'rov.'cteri.io controverted by the answer, and every material allegation of
lie takru a*

irue.
new matter m the answer constituting a counter claim or set
off, not controverted by the reply, shall, for the purpose of
the action, be taken as true; but the allegation of new matter
in the answer, not relating to a counter claim or set-off, or
of new matter in reply, shall be deemed to be controverted by
the adverse party, as upon a direct denial or avoidance, as the
case may require. Allegations of value, or of amount of
damage, shall not be considered as true, by failure to contro
vert them.
Material ane$i.;c. 125. A material allegation
in a pleading
is- one
nation, preb
'
°
MimpMons of essential to the claim or defense, which could not be stricken
law. nor m;i'tor* of which from the pleading without leaving it insufficient.
indictal notice
I
o
°
nottb-™at"<i"1
Neither presumptions of law nor matters of which judicial
notice is taken, need be stated in the pleading.
Sec. 12t1. If an original pleading be lost or withheld by any person, the court may allow a copy thereof to be stibsti-if pleading
tilted.

lost. copy mnv
be substituted.

Mistakes in Pleadings and Amendments.
Sec.
127.
No variance
between
the
allegations,
in a wo
variance boitii
e •
in
i
V- i
i
Twi't'ii pleading
. pleading, ana the proof, is to be tteemed material, unless it ami proof nutI
-,1
-111
1
-, •
•
T
ter'al
<lnl<'*"have actually misled the adverse party, to his prejudice, in etc.
maintaining his action or defense upon the merits. ,When
ever it is alleged that a party has been so misled, that fact
must be so proved to the satisfaction of the court, and it must
also be shown in what respect he has been misled, and there
upon the court may order the pleading to by amended, upon
such terms as may be just.
Sec. 128. When the variance is not material, as provided court may <u,
,.
.
t
p
i r<'ct tlti.* fact to
in the preceding section, the court may direct the tact to be he found.
found, according to the evidence, and may order an immedi
ate amendment without cost.
Sec. 12!t. When, however, the allegation of the claim or What is not n
i f
i-ii
<. •
i.
i
i
• case of v;nt<iefense, to which the proot is directed, is unproved, not m mice,
some particular or particulars only, but in its general scope
and meaning, it is not to be deemed a case of variance within
the last two sections, but a failure of proof.
Sec. 130. The plaintiff may amend his petition without piainiff may
,
.
,
.
,
"
......
.
amend, etc.
leave, at any time before the answer is filed, without preju
dice to the proceedings ; but notice of such amendment shall
be served upon the defendant or his attorney, and the defend
ant shall have the same time to answer or demur thereto as to
the original petition.
Sec. 181. At any time within ten days after the demur- Adverse pamci i ,i
i
i " ,.
may amend.
rer is hied, the adverse party may amend, of course, on pay- titc.
ment of costs since filing the defective pleading. Notice of
the filing of an amended pleading shall be forthwith served
Upon the other party or his attorney, who shall have the same
time thereafter to answer or reply thereto, as to an original
pleading.
Sec. 182. Upon a demurrer being overruled, the party Demurrer over1
°
i
J ruled, the party
who demurred may answer or reply, if the court be satisfied may answer -V
that he has a meritorious claim or defense, and did not demur
for delay.
Sec. 133; The court may, before or after judgment, in The court may furtherance of justice, and on such terms as may he proper,
permit amendt
i
it
iiu-nts
in fur- amend any
pleading,
process or proceeding,
by adding
or
♦ Iterance of jus•> '
. fe» 1
1
° . "
.
'><.s.
striking out the name of any party, or correcting a mistake
in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect, or
by
inserting other allegations material to the case, or conJoo
form the pleading or proceeding to the facts proved, when
such amendment does not change substantially the claim or
defense; and when any proceeding fails to conform, in any
respect, to the provisions of this code, the court may permit
the same to be made conformable therto by amendment.
Errors disre- Sec. 134. The court, in every stage of action, must disJii'i" not \>nect regard any error or defect in the pleadings or proceedings
ri''''u'i>. '"
' which docs not affect the substantial rights of the adverse
party ; and no judgment shall be reversed or affected bv
reason of such error or defect.
if demurrer
Sec. 135. If the demurrer be sustained, the adverse party
sustained, adn ... ,i
i
verse party may amend, it the detect can be remedied by way or amend
ment, with or without costs, as the court, in its discretion,
shall direct.
Sec. 18ti. When either party shall amend any plead mi
I'miu amendI" ses.11oont'inu- or proceeding, and the court shall be satisfied, by affidavit or
uranteci."* " otherwise, that the adverse party could not be ready for trial
iii consequence thereof, a continuance may be grunted to
some day in term, or to another term of the court.
True name un^:';C- 137. When the plaintiff shall be ignorant of the
name"' suiisu- name of a defendant, such defendant may be designated, in
any pleading or proceeding, by any name or description ; and
when his true name is discovered, the pleading may be
amended accordingly. The plaintiff in such case must state
in his' petition, that he could not ascertain the true name;
and the summons must contain the words ''real inline un
known," and a copy thereof must be served personally upon
the defendant.
supplemental
Seo. 138. Either party may be allowed on notice, and on
pleadings may
i '
•,
^,
l'e tiled.
such terms as to costs, as the court may prescribe, to hie
a supplemental petition, answer or reply, alleging facts mate
rial to the case, occurring after the former petition, answer or
reply.
N>Ciiso"id'ateci!>e
Sec. 139. Whenever two or more actions are pending in the same court, which might have been joined, the defend
ant may, on motion and notice to the adverse party, require
him to show cause why the same shall not be consolidated ;
and if no cause be shown, the said several actions shall
be consolidated.
Sec. 140. The order' for consolidation may be made by in varati-.ni.
the court, or by a judge thereof, in- vacation.

Arrest ami hall

Se.C 141. A defendant in a civil action can . be arrested,
before and after judgment, in the manner prescribed by this
code, and not otherwise ; but this provision does not apply to
proceedings for contempt; nor does it apply to actions or
'judgments prosecuted in the name of the Territory of Wyo
ming, to recover lines or penalties for crimes, misdemeanors
or often ses.
Sec. 142. An order for the arrest of the defendant shall An order for
be made by the judge or clerk of the court in which the made by' the
. I
i , ' 1 " .1
. Pl 1 • 1 • irit- ^ . .1ud.?e <""' clerk
action is brought, when there is hied in his omce an am davit upon affidavit.
n
i
•
showing:
of the plaintiff, his authorized agent or attorney, stating the
nature of the plaintiff's claim ; that it is just, and the amount
thereof, as nearly as may be, and establishing one or more of
the following particulars :
First. That the defendant has removed or begun to remove Defendant lm*
....
........
removed, etc.
any ol his property out ot the jurisdiction of the court, with
intent to defraud his creditors.
Second, That he has begun to convert his property, or a Has bestm >o
part thereof, into money, for the purpose of placing it beyond property.
the reach of his creditors.
Third, That he has property, or rights of action, which he conceal* hi>
..-,-,.,
,
*
'
properly.
fraudulently conceals.
Fourth, That he has assigned, removed or disposed of, or Dispo:dm: nt
has begun to dispose of his property, or a part thereof, with fraud,
intent to defraud his creditors.
Fifth, That he fraudulently contracted the debt or incurred fraudulent iy
contr ted debts

the obligation for which suit is about to be, or has been
brought.
The affidavit shall also contain a statement of the facts ti^taL'""^
claimed to justify the belief in the existence of one or more
of the above particulars.

ii.m.i lmiK in'

Ske. 143. The order of arrest shall not be issued by the
clerk until there has been executed, by one or more sufficient
sureties of the plaintiff, ;i written undertaking to the effect
that the plaintiff shall pay to the defendant all damages which
he may sustain by reason of the arrest, if the order be wrongfullv obtained, not exceeding double the amount of plaintiff's
claim stated in the affidavit.
onirc with or
Sue. 144. The order may be made to accompany the
nl'k'r summons
summons, or at any time afterwards, before judgment.
-.iuTiif. it must delivered with ;; copy of the affidavit to the sheriff.
the
order shall state the name of the parties, the court in which
the action is brought, and the amount of the plaintiff's claim
specified in the affidavit, and shall require the sheriff to arrest
the defendanr, and hold him to bail in double the sum stated
in the affidavit, and to make return of the order on a day to
be named therein, with the undertaking of the bail, if any be
given.
.rw r,.:nni day
Skc. 140. The return day of the order of arrest, when
ot the uruer,
issued at the commencement ot the suit, shah be the same as
that of the summons: when issued afterwards, it shall be
fifteen days after it is issued.
siu.r.tr shall
yECi X47. 'fhe sheriff shall execute the order bv arresting
execute t lie or-

*

<

the defendant, and delivering to him a copy thereof and of the
affidavit. If the defendant cannot be found before the return
day, the plaintiff shall be entitled to further orders, without
another affidavit or undertaking until the defendant is
arrested; but orders of arrest shall not be issued to any
other than the county in which the action is brought.
ih'frniTt fom- Sec. 148. The defendant when arrested shall be com
mitted tu jail.
...,,.,-.
,
. .. . ,
, ,
nutted by the sheriff to the jail ot the county, and kept in
custody until discharged by law.
Defendant
may
Si:c. . 149. The defendant mav,
before or after on
giving bail,
give ball or de//
posit money, deposit in the hands of the sheriff, or in court, the amount id'
money mentioned in the order of arrest, whereupon he shall
sheriff mustDe discharged, or his bail, if any he given, shall be released,
jmymoneyinto gE( . 150. The sheriff shall pay into court the money received by him in lieu of bail. If received in vacation, he
shall pay it on the first day of the next term; if received
•luring a term he shall pay it immediately.
Sec. 151. The court shall make proper orders for the The court must
nuke orders
safe keeping of money deposited in lieu of bail. It may for safe keepdirect the sheriff to keep the money, and after final judgment money,
in the action shall order it to be paid to the party entitled
tlrereto, according to the result.
Sec. 152. Money so deposited with the sheriff, in lieu sheriff and bis
,. . ..
..
iii
ii
iii n i sureties liable
of bail, or directed by the court to be kept by him, shall be for the money,
held on his official responsibility; and he and his sureties are
liable, and may be proceeded against for any default in rela
tion thereto, as in other cases of delinquency.
Defendant may
Skc. 153. Bail may be given by the defendant on his |j"no.bauncl'.':f.
arrest, or at any time afterwards, before judgment. It shall mTtst'"V" fiull
be done by causing one or more sufficient sureties to execute a wlth the <:lerk'
written undertaking to the plaintiff, in the presence of the
sheriff, to the effect that, if judgment shall be rendered in the
action against the defendant, he will render himself amenable
to the process of the court thereon. The undertaking when
accepted shall be returned to the clerk's office and the defend
ant discharged.
Sec. 154. The plaintiff or his attorney may object to the The plaintiff
.
mavobj't to the
bail for insufficiency, at any time within ten days after notice bail and giTe
notice, etc.
of the undertaking having been given. \\ ithin such time he
shall serve upon the sheriff a written notice that he does not
accept the bail, or he shall be deemed to have accepted
it, and the sheriff shall be exonerated from liability. When ,
the undertaking is given after return of arrest, the plaintiff
shall have notice thereof.
Sec. 155. On receipt of such notice, the sheriff or de-xhe e her in
fondant may, within ten days thereafter, give to the plaintiff tic" of^the jusor his attorney, notice in writing of the justification of the bail.
same or other bail, before a judge or clerk of the court in
which the action is brought, a probate judge or justice of the
peace, at a specified time and place ; the time to be not less
than five nor more than ten days thereafter.
In case other
bail be given there must be a new undertaking.
Sec, 156. For the purpose of justification, each of the
bail must attend before the proper officer, at the time and
place mentioned, and may be examined on oath or affirma
tion touching his sufficiency, in such manner as the officer
may think proper.
< ifflc-r must tn- Sec. 157. If the officer find the bail sufficient he shall
taking and file indorse his allowance on the undertaking and cause the same
dork.
to be filed with the clerk, and the sheriff shall thereupon be
discharged from liability,
if defendaut
Sec. 158. After being
arrested, if the defendant escapes
pscape, nherkft
°
l
nabfe.
M- be rescued, or bail be not taken, or be adjudged insufficient,
or deposit be not made, the sheriff shall be liable as bail.
But he may discharge himself from liability by putting in
sufficient bail at any time before judgment.
Liability en- Sec. 159. The return of " not found " upon on execution
forced In Bopur.
,
ate action.
against the body ot the defendant shall be necessary to fax the
liability of the sheriff as bail, which liability shall be the
amount of the judgment, interest and costs. This liability
can be enforced only in a separate action against him, or
against him and his sureties on his official bond, as in other
cases of delinquency.
Bali liable t- Sec. 160. The bail adjudged insufficient, shall be liable
to the sheriff for the damages he may sustain by reason of
such insufficiency.
now iJaMDty
Sec. lt>l . The liability of the bail shall be fixed in the
of ball Hhall be
. T , .
.
lixed.
manner provided in section one hundred and fifty-nine for
fixing the liability of the sheriff as bail, and the bail can be
proceeded against in an action only.
surrender of
Sec. 162. A surrender of the defendant to the sheriff of
the defendaut
discharges the tlle county in which he was arrested, with a ,delivery of a
certified copy of the undertaking of the bail, whether such
surrender be made by the defendant himself or by his bail,
shall discharge the bail. Snch surrender may be made at
any time before the return day of the summons in an action
against the bail. The sheriff shall give to the bail a written
acknowledgment of the surrender, and hold the defendant in
his custody upon the said copy of the undertaking of bail as
upon an order of the arrest. On the production of the
sheriff's acknowledgment of the surrender to the clerk of a court, an exoneration of the bail shall be entered on his un
dertaking.
Sec. 163. For the purpose of surrendering tine defend- The ban mar
surrender thl
ant, the bail, at any time or place, before he is finally charged, defendant.
may himself arrest him, or by a written authority indorsed
<m a certified copy of the undertaking, may empower any per
son of suitable age and discretion to do so.
Sec. 164. The bail will be exonerated by the death of Bail exonorat,
ed by the death
the defendant, or his imprisonment
in a state prison,
imprison.
, or by or
mentofdefendhis legal discharge from the obligation to render himself ant,
amenable to the process of the court, or by his surrender to
the sheriff of the county in which he is arrested in execution
thereof within the time fixed in section one hudred and sixtytwo, or within such further time as the court in which the
action is pending may allow.
Sec. 165. If money be deposited by the defendant on his Money depositdischarge, bail may be given and justified upon notice as pre- upon giving
scribed in section one hundred and fifty-five, at any time be
fore judgment ; and thereupon the court, or judge thereof, in
which the action was brought, on being satisfied that the bail
has been given ,and adjudged sufficient, shall direct the money
deposited refunded to the defendant, and it must be refunded
accordingly.
Sec. 166. If at any time before or after judgment against Court may star
Proc « e d i n g '«
the bail, proceedings in error are commenced, on the ludg- against bail

nP°n a wr" of
ment against
the *principal,
in the suit in which
their under- error,
if the
°
r
t
judgm't ag'nst
taking
was
taken,
the
court
may,
on
motion,
stay
proceedthe
principal
i•
<=
."
J r
reversed, tht
ings against such bail, for a reasonable time, on their paying bail ls diech'dall costs that have accrued against them ; and if on such pro
ceedings the judgment against the principal shall be reversed,
and the principal discharged from said suit, the -bail shall be
discharged from the undertaking.
Sec. 167. A defendant arrested may, at any time- before Defendant, fer
tile justification of the bail, apply, on motion, to the court in may apply for
discharge or rewhich the suit was brought, if in session, and in vacation to auction of bail.
a judge thereof, to vacate the order of arrest, or to reduce
the amount of bail. Reasonable notice of such motion must
lie given to the plaintiff.
Skc. 168. If the motion be made upon affidavits on the Upon affidavit* part of the defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintiff may
oppose the same, by affidavits or other evidence, in addition
to that on which the order of arrest was made.
The
per
s
<in
Sec. 169. Any
person causing
another to be committed
causing comJ x
°
mitment liable to iail under the provisions of this title, shall be liable, in the
for jail fees.

•>

'

first instance, for the jail fees, and shall, if required by the
jailor, pay such fees weekly in advance; and such fees so paid
shall be a part of the costs of the case.
Plaintiff
iniiy
have replevin.

Sec. 170.

Replevin of Property.
The 1plaintiff in an action to recover specific
l

personal property, may, at the commencement of the suit,
or at any time before answer, claim the immediate delivery
of such property, as provided in this title.
Must file affiSec. 171. An order for the delivery of property to the
davit showing,
.
J
r i
J
etcplaintiff shall be made by the clerk of the court in which the
action is brought, when there is filed in his office an affidavit
of the plaintiff, his agent or attorney, showing—
First, A description of the property claimed.
Second, That the plaintiff is the owner of the property, or
has a special ownership or interest therein, stating the facts
in relation thereto, and that he is entitled to the immediate
possession of the property.
Third, That the property is wrongfully detained by the
defendant.
Fourth, That it was not taken in execution on any order
or judgment against said plaintiff, or for the payment of any
tax, fine or amercement assessed against him, or by virtue of
an order of delivery issued under this title or any other
mesne or final process issued against the plaintiff.
The order of
Sec. 172. The order for the delivery of the property to
delivery shall
._, , ,, .
*
nate< etc,
the plaintm shall be addressed and delivered to the sheriff.
It shall state the names of the parties, the court in which the
action is brought, and command the sheriff to take the prop
erty, describing it, and deliver it to the plaintiff, and to make
return of the order on a day to be named therein.
The return day Sec. 173. The return day for the order of delivery,
'" "'" or er- when issued at the commencement of the suit, shall be the
same as that of a summons; when issued afterwards, it shall
be twenty days after it is issued.
Sec. 174. The sheriff shall execute the order bv taking sheriff shall
" t
° execute order
the property therein mentioned.
He shall also deliver a anfl deliver
copy, etc,
copy of the order to the person charged with the unlawful
detainer of the property, or leave such copy at his usual
place of residence.
Sec. 175. The sheriff or other officer shall not deliver Sheriff shall
not deliver proto the plaintiff, his agent or attorney, the property so taken, perty to defenduntil there has been executed by one or more sufficient sureties dertaking i> e
*

given.

of the plaintiff, a written undertaking to the defendant, in at
least double the value of the property taken, to the effect that
the plaintiff shall duly prosecute the action, and pay all costs
and damages which may be awarded against him. The un
dertaking shall be returned with the order.
Sec. 17t5. For the purpose of fixing the amount of the How to a* thf
°
amount of tht
undertaking, the value of the property token shall be ascer- undertaking.
tained by the oath of two or more responsible persons, whom
the sheriff or other officer shall swear truly to assess the
value thereof.
Sec. 177. If the undertaking required by section one if undertakinir
hundred and seventy-five be not given within twenty-four twentymo"!
hours from the taking of the property under said order, the re" u'rucT'Vn
i
• fy'
,1
<c
in
,i
i
n n
n certain rase*
sheriff or other othcer shall return the property to the defend- sheriff liable.
ant ; and if the sheriff or other officer deliver any property so
taken to the plaintiff, his agent or attorney, or keep the
same from the defendant, without taking such security, within
the time aforesaid, or if he take insufficient security, he shall
be liable to the defendant in damages.
Sec. 178. The defendant may, within forty-eight hours Defendant may

except to thi
from the time the undertaking referred to in the preceding sureties,
section is given by the plaintiff, give notice to the sheriff that
he excepts to the sufficiency of the sureties. If he fail to do
•so, he must be deemed to have waived all objections to them.
When the defendant excepts, the sureties must justify upon
notice, as bail on arrest. The sheriff or other officer shall be
responsible for the sufficiency of the sureties, until the objec
tion to them is waived as above provided, or until they justify.
The property shall be delivered to the plaintiff, when the un
dertaking required by section one hundred and seventy-five
has been given.
Sec. 179. If the property has been delivered to th?
r o prosecute, ...„
i . i
i
it
•
1 •
i
defendant
may
plaintitt,
be rendered against
him on demurrer,'
have jurv to r
' and Jjudgment
. B
°
assess
dam- or if he otherwise fail to prosecute
his action to final Jludg*ges.
'
e
ment, the court shall on application of the defendant or his
attorney, impanel a jury to inquire into the right of property
and right of possession of the defendant to the property
taken. If the jury shall be satisfied that said property was
the property of the defendant at the commencement of the
action, or if they shall find that the defendant was entitled
to the possession only of the same at such time, then, and in
either case, they shall assess such damages for the defendant
as right and proper; for which with costs of suit the court
shall render judgment for the defendant,
where jury
Sec. 180. In all cases where the property has been dedufendant, they livered to the plaintiff, when the jury shall find upon issue
may assess . .
damages
in hi*•<*loined,' tor the defendant,
thev shall also find whether the
favor.
..
defendant has the right of property or the right of posses
sion only, at the commencement of the suit, and if they find
either in his favor, they shall assess such damages as they
think right and proper for the defendant, including his attor
ney's fees, for which, with casts of suit, the court shall ren
der judgment for the defendant against the plaintiff and his
sureties.
Where jury
Sec. 181. In all cases when the property has been delivtil^atheyPlmay ered to the plaintiff, where the jury shall find for the plain*ges. '" "m tiff, on an issue joined, or on inquiry of damages upon a judg
ment by the default, they shall assess adequate damages to
the plaintiff for the illegal detention of the property; for
which, with costs of suit, the court shall render judgment for
the plaintiff.
Where prop'ty Sec. 182. When the property claimed has not been
faken" or \a™ taken, or has been returned to the defendant by the sheriff,
t"onesdhai1i6pro- for want of the undertaking required by section one hundred
eeed for dam-
ages only.
and, seventy-five,
the
action
may proceedl as one rtor damages
only, and the plaintiff shall be entitled to such damages as
are right and proper; but if the property be returned for
want of the undertaking required by section one hundred
and seventy-five, the plaintiff shall pay all costs made by

taking the same.
Sec. 183. An order may
be directed to any other county Several
orders
J
may be issued
than the one in which the action is brought, for the delivery and directed to
°
g
" amy eounly.
of the property claimed. Several orders may be issued at
the same time, or successively, at the option of the plaintiff ;
hut only one of them shall be taxed in the costs, unless oth
erwise ordered by the court.
Sec. 184. The sheriff or other officer, in the execution of sheriff may
•
1
break -open
the order of delivery,
may
break open
any
building | or inciotmiid'g to exe"
*
l
*
. cute order.
sure in which the property claimed, or any part thereof, is
concealed ; but not unless he has been refused an entrance
into said building or inclosure and the delivery of the pro
perty, after having demanded the same.
Sec. 186. Anv order for the delivery of property issued Order issneci
•
i
„, without affiunder section one hundred and seventy-one without the am- davit shall be
.
set aside and
davit required
thereby,
shall be set aside at the cost of the elerk
plaintiff
and
1
•> '
liable.
clerk issuing the same; and such clerk, as well as the
plaintiff and his sureties, shall also be liable in damages to
the party injured.
Attachment—Article I.
Sec. 187. The plaintiff in a civil action for the recovery
The plaintiff
J may at or after
of money
may,
at
or
alter
the
commencement
thereof,
have
the
commenceJ
."
'
ment of his
an attachment against
the
property
of
the
defendant,
and
action
haw at°
r r
J
i
tachm't in the
upon the grounds herein stated :
foffloWg case*.First, When the defendant or one of the defendants is a
foreign corporation, or a non-resident of this Territory ; or,
Second, Has absconded with the intent to defraud his cre
ditors ; or,
Third, Has left the county of his residence to avoid the
service of a summons ; or,
Fourth, So conceals himself that a summons cannot be
served upon him ; or,
Fifth, Is about to remove hie property, or a part thereof,
out of the jurisdiction of the court, with the intent to defraud
his creditors; or,
Sixth, Is about to convert his property, or a part thereof,
into money, for the purpose of placing it beyond the reach of
his creditors ; or,
Seventh, Has property, or rights in action, which he con
ceals; or,
Eighth, Has assigned, removed or disposed of, or is abotifc
to dispose of, his property, or a part thereof, with the intent
to defraud his creditors ; or,
Ninth, Fraudulently contracted the debt or incurred the
obligation for which suit is about to be or has been brought.
But an attachment shall not be granted on the ground that
the defendant is a foreign corporation or a non-resident of
this Territory, for any claim other than a debt or demand
arising upon contract, judgment or decree ; or,
Tenth, In all cases not exceeding two hundred and fiftv
dollars, in which the debt is not otherwise secured, and which
has not been paid when due and within ten days thereafter
on demand.
This subdivision not to apply to causes of
action already accrued.
OrderofattachSec. 188. An order of attachment shall be made by the
meni made by * ,

i ,
clerk upon fli- clerk ot the court in which the action is brought, in any case
ing of affidavit
containing.etc. mentioned In the preceding section, when theft- is hied in his
office an affidavit of the plaintiff, his agent or attorney,
stating :
First, The nature of the plaintiff's claim.
Second, That it is just.
Third, The amount which the affiant believes the plaintiff
ought to recover.
Fourth, The existence of some one of the grounds for an
attachment enumerated in the preceding section, or that the
affiant has good reason to believe and does believe that some
one of said grounds (stating what one) exists.
when defendSec. 189. When the ground of the attachment is, that
ant is a non°
resident or the defendant is a foreign corporation, or a non-resident of
foreign corpor.
°
l
ation .no un-this Territory, the order of attachment may be issued without
dertakin:r r e*
J
quired. "
an undertaking.
ah other cases
Sec. 190. In all other cases, the order of attachment shall
undertaking
.
required.
not be issued by the clerk until there has been executed in
his office, by one or more sufficient sureties of the plaintiff, to
be approved by the clerk, an undertaking not exceeding
double the amount of the plaintiff's claim, to the effect that
the plaintiff shall pay the defendant all damages which he
may sustain by reason of the attachment, if the order be
wrongfully obtained.
Sec. 191. The order of attachment shall be directed and Attachment
delivered to the sheriff. It shall require him tp attach the Hvered ^ th.
lands, tenements, good, chattels, stocks or interest in stocks, q^ Mm to
rights, credits, moneys and effects of the defendant in his
county, not exempt by law from being applied to the pay
ment of the plaintiff's claim, or so much thereof as will
satisfy the plaintiff's claim, to be stated in the order, as in the
affidavit, and the probable costs of the action, not exceeding
fifty dollars.
Sec. 192. Orders of attachment may be issued to the several attach*
. ments may he
sheriffs of different counties ; and several of them may, at the j^*'^ ^
option of the plaintiff, be issued at the same time, or in sue- ,-ulft{*erent
cession ; but such only as have been executed shall be taxed
in the costs, unless otherwise directed by the court.
Sec. 193. The return day of the order of attachment, The return day
•>
ol the order.
when issued at the commencement of the action, shall be the
same as that-tbf the summons; when issued afterwards, it
shall be twenty days after it issued.
Sec. 194. When there are several orders of attachment orders execut.
ed in the order
against
the same defendant, they
shall be executed
in the are
in which
they
~
J
t
received hy
order in which they were received by the sheriff.
the sheriff.
Sec. 195. The order of attachment shall be executed by How tiw order
the sheiiff without delay. He shall go to the place where the ^j"^. »>' "<n
defendant's property may be found, and there, in the pres
ence of two householders of the county, declare that, by vir
tue of said order, he attaches said property at the suit of such
plaintiff; and, the officer, with said householders, who shall
first be sworn or affirmed by the officer, shall make a true
inventory and appraisement of all the property attached,
which shall be signed by the officer and householders, and
returned with the order.
Sec. 19G. Where
the property
what
shall the
j>•
r r J attached is real iproperty,
i
iloue Wnh
the' officer shall leave with the occupant thereof, or, if there property.
be no occupant, in a consl)icuous place thereon, a copy of the
order.
Where it is personal property, and can be come at, he shall
take the same into his custody, and hold it subject to the
i
i, , ,
'
Property re
order of the court.
turned If unSec. 197. The sheriff shall deliver the property attached given? "'k " to the person in whose possession it was found, upon the exe
cution by such person, in the presence of the sheriff, of an
nndertaking to the plaintiff, with one or more sufficient sure
ties, resident in the county, to the effect that the parties to
the same are bound, in double the appraised value thereof,
that the property, or its appraised value in money, shall be
forthcoming to answer the judgment of the court in the
action; but if it shall appear to the court that any part of said
property has been lost or destroyed by unavoidable accident,
the value thereof shall be remitted to the person so bound.
Oarnishee.
Sec. 198. When the plaintiff, his agent or attorney,
shall make oath, in writing, that he has good reason to, and
. does, believe that any person or corporation, in said affidavit
named, has property of the defendant in his possession, (des
cribing the same), if the officer, cannot get possession of such
property, he shall leave with such garnishee a copy of the
order of attachment, with a written notice that he appear in
court and answer, as provided in section two hundred and
twelve. If the garnishee shall not' reside in the county
in which the order of attachment shall be issued, the process
shall be served by the proper officer of the county in which
the garnishee shall reside, and the answer of the garnishee
shall be made before the clerk of the court of the proper
county in which the garnishee may reside, within the time
required for the filing of answers by garnishees. Any special
Hsr be i! x- examination of such garnishee which may be ordered by the
• mined.
court shall be made in the county in which he may reside;
and should suit be brought against such garnishee, under the
provisions of section two hundred and sixteen of this act,
such suit shall be brought in the county in which the garni
shee shall reside. The clerk of the court before whom the
answer aforesaid shall be made shall transmit the same to the
clerk of the court in which the suit shall be commenced, in
the same manner as depositions are required to be directed
and transmitted, and shall receive for his services such fees
as are allowed by law for taking depositions, and to clerks for
furnishing certificates, with their seals of office attached. In
all cases in which the garnishee shall admit an indebtedness
to the defendant, and the court shall order the payment of the same, or any part thereof, to the plaintiff, if the garnishee
ghall not pay the same according to such order, execution
may issue thereon as upon judgments for the payment of
money. The service of process upon a sheriff, coroner, con
stable, master commissioner, marshal of an incorporated city
or village, or other officer having any money, claim, or other
property of the defendant in his possession, or in which the
defendant may have an interest, shall bind the same from the
time of such service, and shall be a legal excuse to such offi
cers, to the extent of the demand of the plaintiff, for not pay
ing such money or delivering such claim or property to the
defendant, as by law or the terms of the process in his hands
he would otherwise be bound to do.
Sec. 199. The copy of the order and notice shall be copy of order
and nflticp
served upon the garnishee, as follows: It he be a person, ?naii ho served
upon garnishee
they shall be served upon him personally, or left at his usual
place of residence; if a corporation, they shall be left with
the president, or other head of the same, or secretary, or
cashier, or manasring;
thereof.
o c agent
o
Sec. 200. Different attachments of the same property Dine rent ntmay be made by the same officer, and one inventory and ap- same property
mnv be made
praisement shall be sufficient, and it shall not be necessarv to by' the same
officer.
return the same with more than one order.
Sec. 201. Where the property is under attachment, it Tho order iu
it shall be attached under subsequent orders, as follows :
shaiiboattacii'-i-T.
e<' under *nhInrst. It it bo real property, it shall be attached m the sequent orden.
manner prescribed in section one hundred and ninety-six.
Second, If it be personal property, it shall be attached as
in the hands of the officer, and subject to any previous attach
ment.
Third, If the same person or corporation be made a gar
nishee, a copy of the order and notice shall left with him, in
the manner prescribed in section one hundred and ninety-nine.
Sec. 202. The officer shall return upon every order The officer
of attachment what he has done under it. The return must turn upon each
show the property attached and the time it was attached.
When garnishees are served, their names and the time each
was served must be stated. The officer shall, also, return
with the order all undertakings given under it.
Sec. 203. An order of attachment binds the property
property.
attached, from the time of service, and the garnishee shall
stand liable to the plaintiff in attachment for all property,
moneys and credits in his hands, or due from him to the
defendant, from the time he is served with the written notice
mentioned in section one hundred and ninety-eight ; but
where the property is attached in the hands of a consignee, his
lien thereon shall not bo affected by the attachment.
The court or
gEC. 9()4. The court or any iudge thereof, during vacajudge may apJ J
eeive"' a ro"tion, may, on the application of the plaintiff, and on good
cause shown, appoint a receiver, who shall take an oath faith
fully to discharge his duty, and shall give an undertaking to
the Territory in such sum as the court or judge may direct,
and with such security as shall be approved by the clerk of
such court, for the faithful performance of his duty, as such
receiver, and to pay over all money and account for all pro
perty, which may come into his hands by virtue of Ins ap
pointment, at such times and in such manner as the court
may direct.
Powers ami
Sec. 205. Such receiver shall take possession of all notes,
receiver'
e due-bills, books of account, accounts, and all other evidences
of debt, that have been taken by the sheriff or other officer;
as the property of the defendant in attachment, and shall
proceed to settle and collect the same. For that purpose he
may commence and maintain actions in his own name as such
receiver; but in such actions no right of defense shall be
impaired or affected.
Receiver shall

Sec. 206. Such receiver shall forthwith give notice of his appointment to the persons indebted to the defendant in
attachment.
The notice shall be written or printed, and
shall be served on the debtor or debtors, by copy personally,
or by copy left at the residence ; and from the date of such
service the debtors shall stand liable to the plaintiff in attach
ment for the amount of moneys and credits in their hands, or
due from them to the defendant in attachment, and shall
account therefor to the receiver.
repCon<hiBaproSec. 207. Such receiver shall, when required, report his
court"™ ° le proceedings to the court, and hold all moneys collected by
•Jive notice.
him and property which may come into his hands, subject to
the order of the court.
Sec. 208. Where a receiver is not appointed by the court When receiver
.
,
, ,
, Is not appoint
or a iud<*e thereof, as -provided in section two hundred and eci, sheriff perJ
o
'
'
forms the dufour, the sheriff dr other officer attaching the property shall ties of receiver,
have all the powers and perform all the duties of a receiver
appointed by the court or a judge, and may, if necessary,
commence and maintain actions in his own name, as such
officer. He may be required to give security other than his
official undertaking.
Sec. 209. The court shall make proper orders for the The court shall
. make orders in
preservation
of the property
to the
1
r r
•* during
° the pendency
L
" ot the suit, reference
disposition
of
It may direct a sale of property, when, because of its perish- the property
and its proable nature or the costs of keeping it, a sale will be for the ceeds.
benefit of the parties. In vacation, such sale may be ordered
by the judge of the court. The sale shall be public, after
such advertisement as is prescribed for the sale of like pro
perty on execution, and shall be made in such manner and
upon such terms of credit, with security, as the court or
judge, having regard to the probable duration of the action,
may direct. The proceeds, if collected by the sheriff, with
all the mor.evs'received by him for garnishees, shall be held
and paid over by him, under the same requirement and
responsibilities of himself and sureties as are provided in
respect to money deposited in lieu of bail.
Sec. 210. If the defendant, or other person on his behalf. Attachment
.
discharged and
at any tune before ludgment. cause an undertaking to be property rc-,
, .
. „. ,
.... tored upon deexecuted to the plaintiff by one or more sureties, resident in fendant Rivms
*
surety.
the county, to be approved by the court, in double the
amount of the plaintiff's claim, as stated in his affidavit, to
the effect that the defendant shall perform the judgment of
the court, the attachment in such action shall be discharged,
and restitution made of any property taken under it, or the
proceeds thereof. Such undertaking shall also discharge the
liability of a garnishee in such action for any property of the
defendant in his hands.
Sec. 211. The undertaking mentioned in the last section The undertakniay, in vacation, be executed in the presence of the sheriff executed in
having the order of attachment in his hands, or, after the return of the order, before the clerk, with the same effect as
if executed in court; the sureties in either case to be approved
by the officer before whom the undertaking is executed.
How a earnSec. 212. The garnishee shall appear as follows : If the
Isheo shall up.
pearorder of attachment be returned during a term of the court,
he shall appear at that term ; if the order be returned during
vacation, he shall appear at the term next after its return.
He shall appear and answer, under oath, all questions put to
him touching the property of every description and credits of
the defendant, in his possession or under his control, and he
shall disclose truly the amount owing by him to the defend
ant, whether due or not; and in the case of a corporation, anv
stock therein held by or for the benefit of the defendant, at
or after the service of notice.
The garnishee
Sec. 213. A garnishee may pay the money owing to the
money "to the defendant by him, to the sheriff having the order of attachutticef or into
ronrt.
ment, or into the court. He shall be discharged from liability
to the defendant for any money so paid, not exceeding the
plaintiff's claim. He shall not be subjected to costs beyond
those caused by his resistance of the claims against him ; and
if he disclose the property in his hands, or the true amount
owing by him, and deliver or pay the same according to the
order of the court, lie shall be allowed his costs.
if garnishee do
Sec. 214. If the garnishee do not appear in court and
not appear, he
is in contempt answer, as required bv section two hundred and twelve, the
ef court.
court may proceed against him by attachment as tor a con
tempt.
The court may
Sec. 21o. If the garnishee appear and answer, and it is
order the gam-
iahee to pay discovered on his examination that, at or alter the service of the
lite nionev into
.
*s-".
order of attachment and notice upon him, lie was possessed of
any property of the defendant, or was indebted to him, the court
may order the delivery of such property and the payment of the
amount owing by the garnishee into the court ; or the court
may permit the garnishee to retain the property or the
amount owTing, upon the execution of an undertaking to the
plaintiff, by one or more sufficient sureties, to the effect that
the amount shall be paid or the property forthcoming, as the
court may direct.
Sec. 216. If the garnishee fail to appear and answer, or
if he appear
and answer, and his disclosure is not satisfactory
if the gam' '
J Ishee fall to
to the plaintiff;
or
if
he
fail
to
comply
with
the
order
of
the
aPPear
,or f<lil
r
r "
to comply with
court to deliver the property and pay the money owing into ,"j® orde™ -i
court, or give the undertaking required in the preceding sec- SJ." ^"A1 1i ^ain -T
tion, the plaintiff may proceed against him in an action, by
filing a petition in his own name, as in other cases, and caus
ing a summons to be issued upon it, and thereupon such pro
ceedings may be had as in other actions, and judgment may ,
be rendered in favor of the plaintiff for the amount of the
property and credits of every kind of the defendant in the
possession of the garnisnee, and for what shall appear to be
owing by him to the defendant, and for the costs of the pro
ceedings against the garnishee. If the plaintiff proceed
against the garnishee by action, for the cause that his dis
closure was unsatisfactory, unless it appear in the action that
such disclosure was incomplete, the plaintiff shall pay the
costs of such action. The judgment in this action may be
enforced as judgments in other cases. When the claims of
the plaintiffs in attachment are satisfied, the defendant in
attachment may, on motion, be substituted as the plaintiff in
the judgment.
Sec. 217. Final judgment shall not be rendered against Final judirm',
the garnishee until the action against the defendant in attach- rencii!r'das'uir
ment has been determined ; and it in such action judgment until after anal
judgment i m
be rendered for the defendant in attachment, the garnishee the case.
shall be discharged and recover costs. If the plaintiff shall
recover against the defendant in attachment, and the <rarnishee shall deliver up all the property, moneys and credits
of the defendant in his possession, and pay all the moneys
from him due, as the court may order, the garnishee shall be
discharged, and the costs of the proceedings against him shall
he paid out of the property and moneys so surrendered, as
the court may think right and proper.
Sec. 218. If judgment be rendered in the action for the ucfend't shall
defendant, the attachment shall be discharged, and theproperty if
property attached, or its proceeds, shall be returned to him. hi- favor.
Sec. 219. If judgment be rendered for the plaintiff, it How judgment
shall be satisfied as follows : So much of the property remain- vor of piaintm'
ing in the hands of the officer, after applying the moneys UQd-arising from the sale of perishable property, and so much of
the personal property and lands and tenements, if any,
whether held by legal or equitable title, as may be necessary
to satisfy the judgment, shall be sold by order of the court,
under the same restrictions and regulations as if the same had
been levied on by execution; and the money arising there
from, with the amount which may be recovered from the carnishee, shall be applied to satisfy the judgment and costs.
If there be not enough to satisfy the same, the judgment
shall stand, and execution may issue thereon, for the residue,
in all respects as in other cas.es. Any surplus of the attached
property, or its proceeds, shall he returned to the defendant.
Tiiv court may
Sec. 221. The court may compel the delivery to the
livery of pro- sheriff, for sale, of any of the attached property for which an
perty for which
an undenak'jr undertaking may have been given, and may proceed summaand upon re- rily on such undertaking to enforce the delivery of the
Vusal punish as
°
^
lor contempt. property, or the payment of such sum as may be due upon the
undertaking, by rules and attachments as in cases of con
tempt,
ihc court may
Sec. 222. The court may order the sheriff to re*possess
sheriff to re- himself, for the purpose of selling it, of any of the attached
possess him.
-eif of the pro- property, which may have passed out of his hands without
being sold, or converted into money; and the sheriff shall,
under such order, have the same power to take the property
as he would have under an order of attachment.
if property is
Sec. 22-3. If personal property which has been attached.
Hons'otherXm be claimed by any person other than the defendant, it shall
tio.-r must'iiave be the duty of the officer to have the validity of the claim
the claim tried.
tried, and such proceedings must be had thereon, with the like
effect, as in case the property had been seized upon execu
tion, and claimed by a third person.
Where attach- Sec. 224. Where several attachments are executed on
'"lu'ihuimi'Tne the same property, or the same persons are made garnishees,
n'''UcourtI>may the court on the motion of any of the plaintiffs may order a
ence.

reference to ascertaih and report the amounts and priorities
of the several attachments.
When the court SEC. 225. From the time of issuing the order of attachshall he deem,
.,..,..
ed
to have
ac- ment,' the court shall be deemed to have acquired
quired
juris'
Jliirisdiction
.
diction.
and to have control ot all subsequent proceedings tinder this title ; and if after the issuing of the order, the defendant,
being a person, should die, or a corporation, and its charter
should expire by limitation, forfeiture or otherwise, the pro
ceedings shall be carried on, but in all such cases other than
where the defendant was a foreign corporation, his legal
representatives shall be made parties to the action.
Sec. 226. The defendant may, at any time before judg- The defendant
may move for
ment, atter reasonable notice to the plaintiff, move the court additional -e.
for additional security on -the part of the plaintiff; and if,
K>n such, motion, the court is satisfied that the surety in the
plaintiff's undertaking has removed from this Territory, or is
not sufficient for the amount thereof, it may vacate the order
of attachment, and direct restitution of any property taken
under it, unless in a reasonable time to be fixed by the court,
sufficient security is given by the plaintiff.
Sec. 227. The defendant may at anytime before judg- The defendant
ment, upon reasonable notice to the plaintiff, move to dis- term ur vain
charge an attachment, as to the whole or any of the property charge the >»11
i tnchment.
attached, and the motion may be heard and decided by the
court at any term or regular session thereof ; or the motion
may be heard and decided by any judge thereof, in vacation.
Ske. 228. If the motion be made upon affidavits on the The u<.ttrl„ir uf
part of the defendant, or papers and evidence in the case, but ' "'"'""""'
not otherwise, the plaintiff may oppose the same by affidavits
or other evidence, in addition to that on which the order of
attachment was made.
Attachments in Certain Actions.
Sec. 229. First,' Where a debtor, has sold,' conveyed,
or Altac tune ills
.
otherwise disposed of his property with the fraudulent intent allowed incer1

to cheat or defraud his creditors, or to hinder or1 delay them
in the collection of their debts.
Second, Where he is about to make such sale, conveyance
or disposition of his property with such fraudulent intent.
Third, When he is about to remove his property, or a ma
terial part thereof, with the intent (or to the effect) of cheat
ing or defrauding his creditors, or of hindering and delaying
them in the collection of their debts.
Sec. 230. A creditor may bring an action on a claim
5

tan, canes.

creditor
may before it is due, and have an attachment against the nropertv
*uc on claim
i
i
.is.foro due and of the debtor in the above mentioned cases.
h a v e attachmi,ntSec. 231. The attachment authorized by the last section
W h e n,

an d


whore, andhow may be granted by the court in winch the action is brought.
such attachm'
°
may be brought 01 by a judge thereof ; but before such action shall be brought,
or such attachment shall be granted, the plaintiff, his agent
or attorney, shall make an oath, in writing, showing the
nature and amount of the plaintiff's claim, that it is just,
when the same shall become due, #and the existence of some
one of the grounds for attachment enumerated in the preceding;
section,
rr attachment Sec. 232. If the court or judge refuse to grant an order
>-haii be w'iih- of attachment, the action shall be dismissed, but without
<ml prejudice.
prejudice to a future action; and m all such actions applica
tion for an attachment must be made.
The order of
Sec. 283. The order of the court or judge granting the
ihe court shall

i
specify, etc. attachmment shall specify the amount tor which it is allowed,
not exceeding a sufficient sum to satisfy the plaintiff's claim,
and the probable cost of the action.
Attachment
Seg. 234. The order of attachment as granted by the
nil tn unde'rtak- court or judge, shall not be issued by the clerk until there
has been executed in his office, such undertaking on the part
of the plaintiff as is directed by section one hundred and
ninety,
shall not have Sec. 235. The plaintiff in such action shall not have
mi claim u due judgment on his claim before it becomes due, and the pro
ceedings on attachment may be conducted without delay.
Proceeding
Sec. 236. The proceedings in the first article of thi»
regulating at1
tachments.
title, subsequent to section one hundred and ninety, shall, so
far as they are applicable, regulate the attachments authorized
by this article.
Injunction.
The injunction

Sec. 237. The injunction provided by this code is a com
mand to refrain from a particular act. It may be allowed as
a provisional remedy, and when so allowed, it shall be by
order. The writ of injunction is abolished,
in what cases
Sec. 238. When it appears, by the petition, that the
auowed.0" 8 plaintiff is entitled to the relief demanded, and such relief,
or any part thereof, consists in restraining the commission or
continuance of some act, the commission or continuance of
which, during the litigation, would produce great or irrepara
ble injury to the plaintiff; or when, during the litigation, it
appears that the defendant is doing, or threatens, or is about
to <lo, or is procuring or suffering to be done, some act in
violation of the plaintiff's rights respecting the subject of
action, and tending to render judgment ineffectual, a tempo
rary injunction may be granted to restrain such act. It may
also be granted in any case where it is specially authorized
by statute.
Sec. 239. The injunction may be granted at the time When the m.
junction mar
of commencing the action or at any time afterwards, be- oe allowed.
fore judgment by the district court, or the judge thereof, or,
in his absence from the county, by the probate judge, upon
its appearing satisfactory to the court or judge, by the affidavit
of the plaintiff or his agent, that the plaintiff is entitled
thereto.
Sec. 240. If the court or judge deem it proper that the court may or
defendant or any party to the suit, should be heard before be given.
granting the injunction, it may direct a reasonable notice to
be given to such party to attend for such purpose, at a speci
fied time and place, and may, in the meantime, restrain such
party.
Sec. 241. An injunction shall not be granted against a No injunction
granted except
party who has answered, unless upon notice, but such party upon notice,
may be restrained until the decision of the application for an
injunction.
Sec. 242. So injunction, unless otherwise provided by no injunction
special statute, shall operate until the party obtaining the until undertai/...
i.iill
ing is executed
same shall give an undertaking, executed by one or more
sufficient sureties, to be approved by the clerk of the court or
judge granting such injunction, in tin amount to be fixed by
the court or judge allowing the same, to secure to the party
injured the damages he may sustain, if it be finally decided
that the injunction ought not to have been granted.
Six. 243. The order of injunction shall be addressed to when it shall
the party enjoined, shall state the injunction and shall be issue the 'ln^ , " ,

junction, and
issued by the clerk. VV hen the injunction is allowed at the what it simii
commencement of the action, the clerk shall endorse upon the
crvrr, code.
summons, '•injunction allowed," and it shall not be necessary

to issue the order of injunction, nor shall it be necessary to
issue the same where notice of the application therefor has
been given to the party enjoined. The service of the sum
mons so indorsed, or the notice of an application fof an
injunction, shall be notice of its allowance.
When the inSicc.244. That when the injunction is allowed during the
junction is ;il#
lowed during litigation, and Without notice of the application therefor, the
litigation.
.
.
order of injunction shall be issued, and the sheriff shall forth
with serve the same upon each party enjoined, in the manner
prescribed for serving a summons, and make return thereof
without delay.
The injunction
Skc. 24f>. An injunction binds the party from the time
Muds from the
time. etc.
hehas notice thereof, and the undertaking required by the
applicant therefor is executed.
No
injunction
Sec. 246. No injunction
shall be granted
shall he allow•>
°
, by a judge
.
,after
<•ci in certain a motion therefor has been overruled on the merits of the
cases.

application by his court, and where it has been refused by
the court in which the action is brought, or a judge thereof,
it shall not be granted to the same applicant, by a court of
inferior jurisdiction, or any judge thereof.
ah
injunction
Sec. 247. An injunction
granted
will he enJ
°
_., , bv
*. a ' judge
° may
J . be
. enforced as the forced as the act of the court. Disobedience of any lnmncact of the court.
-it
tion may be punished as a contempt by the court or anv
judge who might have granted it in vacation. An attach
ment may be issued by the court or judge upon being satisfied
Persons dis-by affidavit of the breach of the injunction, against the party
bc'puntshed as guilty of the same, and may be required, in the discretion of
for "contempt.
the court or judge, to pay a tine not exceeding two hundred
dollars, for the use of the county, to make immediate restitu
tion to the party injured, and give further security to obey
the injunction; or in default thereof, he maybe committed
»
to close custody, until he shall fully comply with such re
quirements, or be otherwise legally discharged.
Defendant may
Sec. 248. That a rparty
enjoined
may,
at anv
time before
move for adJ
j
,> '
*i
ditionai secu- judgment, upon reasonable notice to the party who has
obtained the injunction, move the court or judge for additional
security; and if it appear that the surety in the undertaking
has removed from the Territory, or is insufficient, the court or judge may vacate the injunction, unless in a reasonable
time sufficient security be given.
Sec. 249. On the hearing
for an injunc-Each
P,ar!/
o of an application
vIi
J
may read
afhtion, each party may read affidavits.
All affidavits shall bedavitsfiled.
Sec. 250. If the injunction
be granted
without notice,
J
.
° .
the defendant, at any
time
before
the
trial,
may
apply, upon
•>
'
•' rr » ' *
notice to the court in which the action is brought, or any

Application
may
be made
to
vacate injunction grantfd wlthout no"

judge thereof, to vacate and modify the same. The applica
tion may be made upon the petition and affidavits upon which
the injunction is granted, or upon affidavits on the part of the
party enjoined with or without answer. The order of the
judge, allowing, dissolving or modifying an injunction, shall
be returned to the office of the clerk of the court in which the
action is brought, and recorded and obeyed as if made by the
court.
Sec. 251. If application be made upon affidavits, on thcEaeii party
may read afnpart ot the defendant, but not otherwise, the plaintiiis may davits,
oppose the same by affidavits or other evidence, in addition to
that on which the injunction was granted.
A defendant may obtain an injunction upon an answer in Tnj unctiuu
the nature of a counter-claim, lie shall proceed in the man- "inied 'on ° a
counter-claim.
ner prescribed in this title.
Sec. 252. This title has no application in chancery cases Does not apply
in chancery
or to practice in courts of equity.
,..,..
Receivers and other Provisional Remedies.
Sec. 253. A receiver may be appointed by the supreme Receivers may
court, the district court or any judge of cither, or in the by the supreme
...
.
,
.
i
• i
court, district
absence
ol-r said mdges
trom the county,
bv the probate
judge:
court,
or any
T-r
•
J' J
,.
, ,
judge of either
First. Jn an action by a vendor to vacate a fraudulent of said court,..
*
or in their al>rjurchase of property,
or bv
a creditor to subject
any
propsence from the
r
I
l
.< '
^
•>
. i
t county, by the
ertv or fund to his claim, or between partners or others ,'ro;'ute J'Kl-.'
1
in the followjointly owning or interested in any property or fund, on the lng eaa6S' etc,
application of the plaintiff, or of any party whose right to or
interest in the property or fund, or on the proceeds thereof,
is probable, and where it is shown that the property or fund
is in danger of being lost, removed or materially injured.
Second, In' an action by a mortgagee for the foreclosure of his mortgage, and sale of the mortgaged property, where it
appears that the mortgaged property is in danger of being
lost, removed or materially injured, or that the condition of
the mortgage has not been performed, and the property is
probably insufficient to discharge the mortgage debt.
Third, After judgment, to carry the judgment into effect.
Fourth, After judgment, to dispose of the property accord
ing to judgment, or to preserve it during the pendency of an
appeal, or when an execution has been returned unsatisfied.
and the judgment debtor refuses to apply the property in
satisfaction of the judgment.
Fifth, In the cases provided in this eode, and by special
statutes, when a corporation has been dissolved, or is insol
vent, or in imminent danger of insolvency, or has forfeited
its corporate rights.
Sixth In all other cases where receivers have heretofore been
appointed by the usages of the courts of equity.
interested
Sec. 254. No party, attorney, or person interested in
be receiver.
an action, shall be appointed receiver therein.
Receiver shall
Sbc. 255. Before entering upon his duties, the receiver
execute under- must be sworn to perform them faithfully, and with one or
more sureties approved by the court or judge, execute an
undertaking to such person in such sum as the court or judge
shall direct, to the effect that he will fathfully discharge
the duties of receiver in the action, and obey the orders of
the court therein.
Powers of the Sec. 256. The receiver has, under the control of the
'''''
court, power to bring and defend actions in his own name,
as receiver, to take and keep possession of property, to receive
rents, collect debts, to compound for and compromise the
same, to make transfers, and generally, to do such acts
respecting the property as the court may authorize.
Receiver may
Sec. 257. Funds in the hands of a receiver may be
his hands.
invested upon interest by order of the court ; but no such order
shall be made, except upon the consent of all the parties to
the action.
Trustee must
Sec. 258. When it is admitted by the pleading or examcoart!°ney B ° ination of a party that he has in his possession or under his
control any money or other thing capable of delivery, which. being the subject of litigation, is held by him as trustee for
another party, or which belongs or is due to another party,
the court may order the same to be deposited in court or
delivered to such party, with or without security, subject to
the further direction of the court.
Sec. 259. Whenever, in the exercise of its authority, a Power of court
court shall have ordered the deixjsit or deliverv of money or money to be
other tiling, and the order is disobeyed, the court, beside pun
ishing the disobedience, as for a contempt, may make an order
requiring the sheriff to take the money or thing, and deposit
or deliver it in conformity with the direction of the court.

Trial and [*Seo. 2G0. Issues arising on the pleadings, where a fact
or conclusion of law is maintained by one party and contro
verted by the other. They are—
First, Of law.
Second, Of fact.
Seo. 261. An issue of law arises upon a demurrer to the
petition, answer or reply, or to some part thereof. An issue
of fact arises—
First, Upon material allegation in the petition, denied by
the answer.
Second, Upon a set-off or counter-claim presented in the
answer and denied by the reply.
Third, Upon material new matter in the answer or reply,
which shall be considered as controverted by the opposite
party without further pleading.
Sec. 262. A trial is a judicial examination of the issues, Trial le a in"
diclal examinwhether of law or of fact, in an action.
atlonSec. 263. Issues of law must be tried by
the
court,
unless
i«snes
of law
•>
must he tried
referred,' as provided
in
section
two
hundred
and
eighty-one.
bJ,,h.e
^ou.rut;
i
D •*
ol fact, by the
Issues of fact arising in actions for the recovery of money, or court oriur>'of specific real or personal property, shall be tried by a jury,
unless a jurv trial is waived, or a reference be ordered, as
hereinafter provided.
Sec. 264. All other issues of fact shall be tried by the
court, subject to its power to order an issue or issues to be
tried by a jury, or referred, as provided in this code.
Sec. 265. The general mode of summoning, iinpannefing,
challenging and swearing the jury shall be as provided by
law.
uom tiic trial
Sec. 266. When the jury has been sworn, the trial shall
proceed in the following order, unless the court for special
reasons otherwise direct :
First, The plaintiff must briefly state his claim, and may
briefly state the evidence by which he expects to sustain it.
Second, The defendant must then briefly state his defense,
and may briefly state the evidence he expects to offer to
support it.
Third, The party who would be defeated, if no evidence
were given on eithei side, must first produce his evidence ;
the adverse party will then produce his evidence.
Fourth, The parties will then be confined to rebutting
evidence, unless the court, for good reasons, in furtherance of
justice, permits them to offer evidence in their original case.
Fifth, When the evidence is concluded, either party may
request instructions to the jury on points of law, which shall
be given or refused by the court ; which instructions shall be
reduced to writing, if either party require it.
Sixth, The parties may then submit or argue the case to
the jury. In the argument the party required first to pro
duce his evidence shall have the opening and conclusion. If
several defendants, having separate defenses, appear by
different counsel, the court shall arrange their relative order.
Serenth, The court may again charge the jury after the
argument is concluded ; said charge to be in writing if re
quested by either party,
jury may have
Skc. 267. Whenever, in the opinion of the court, it i.vleiv of proper.
ty in litigation, proper for the jury to have a view of the property which is
the subject of litigation, or of the place in which any material
fact occurred, it may order them to be conducted in a body,.
under the charge of an officer, to the place, which shall Ikshown to them by some disinterested person appointed by
the court for that purpose. While the jury are thus absent,
no person, other than the person so appointed, shall speak to
them on any subject connected with the trial.
Sec. 268. When the case is finally submitted to the jury, Jury may de~
i
-i
e
j vi
re n
cide the ossein
thev may
decide in court or retire tor
deliberation. It they
court or retim
J
.
J for deliberretire, they must be kept together, in some convenient place, -tion.
under the charge of an officer until they agree upon a verdict,
or are discharged by the court, subject to the discretion of
the court to permit them to separate temporarily at night or
at their meals. The officer having them under his charge,
shall not suffer any communication to be made to them, or
make any himself, except to ask them if they have agreed
upon their verdict, unless by order of the court, and he shall
not, before their verdict is rendered, communicate to any
person the state of their deliberations or the verdict agreed
upon.
Sec. 269. If the jury are permitted to separate, either when jury
l*>i
separatee court
during the trial, or atter the case is submitted to them, they shall admonish
shall be admonished by the court that it is their duty not to
converse with or suffer themselves to be addressed by any
other person, on the subject of the trial, and that it is their
duty not to form or express any opinion thereon, until the
cause is finally submitted to them.
Sec. 270. After the jury have retired for deliberation, if After jury hn.* "
retired, mav i>c.
there be a disagreement between them as to any part of the conducted into
°
^ <
court for extestimony, or if they desire to be informed as to any question pianation.
of the law arising in the case, they may request the officer
to conduct them to the court, where the information upon
the point of law, shall be given, and the court may give its
recollection as to the testimony on the point in dispute, in
the presence of, or after notice to the parties or their counsel.
Sec. 271. The •>iury
may•> be discharged
by
the court on jury
may i>«
•>
e
discharged b.T
account of the sickness of a juror, or other accident or the court.
calamity requiring their discharge, or by consent of both
parties, or after they have been kept together until it satis
factorily appears that there is no probability of their agreeing.
Sec. 272. In all cases where the •>iury are discharged
Case
must bo
°
agnin tried.
during the trial, or after the case is submitted to them, it
may be tried again immediately, or at a future time, as the
court may direct.
Wh0H tlu. ver.
Sec. 273. When the jury has agreed upon their verdict, Spmlurymu'f
they must be conducted into courtj their names called by the ^0 co'uri!.RU clerk, and the verdict rendered by the foreman. When the
verdict is announced, either party may require the jury to be
polled, which is done by the clerk asking each juror if it is
his verdict. If any one answers in the negative, the jury
must again be sent out for further deliberation.
verdict must
Sec. 274. The verdict shall be written, signed by the fore,
i
the foreman, man, and read by the clerk to the jurv, and the inquirv made
audit' any juror
disagree, jury whether it is their verdict. It any luror disagree, the inrv
must be sent
.......
.
"
out.
must be sent out again ; but if no disagreement be expressed,
he signed bv

and neither party require the jury to be polled, the verdict is
complete, and the jury shall be discharged from the case.
If, however, the verdict be defective in form only, the same
mav, with the assent of the jury before they are discharged,
be corrected by the court.
Verdict.
Verdict.

ggc. 275. The verdict of a jury is either general or
special. A general verdict is that by which they pronounce,
generally, upon all or any of the issues, either in favor of the
plaintiff or defendant. A special verdict is that by which
the jury finds the facts only. It must present the facts as
established by the evidence, and not the evidence to prove
them; and they must be so piesented as that nothing remains
to the court but to draw from them conclusions of law.

jm-y may renSec. 276. In every action for the recovery of money only.
dor general or
special verdict. or specific real property, the jury in their discretion, may
render a general or special verdict. In all other cases, the
court may direct the jury to find a special verdict, in writing,
upon all or any of the issues ; and in all cases may instruct
them, if they render a general verdict, to find upon particular
questions of fact to be stated in writing, and may direct a
written finding thereon. The special verdict or finding must
be filed with the clerk and entered on the journal.
Facts incon- Sec. 277. When the special finding of facts is inconsis.Micriu ver- tent with the general verdict, the former controls the latter,
diet. courl will
. ,
...
..
.
give judgment. and the court may give judgment accordingly.
''es"theUam-nt:
Sec- 278- When b.v the verdict either party is entitled
to recover money of the adverse party, the jury in their ver
dict must assess the amount of recovery.
The trial by jury may be waived by the par- Trial by ths

ties in actions arising on contracts, and with the assent of
the court, in other actions, in the following manner :
First. By the consent of the party appearing, when the
other party fails to appear at the trial by himself or his
attorney.
Second,I By
th» trial
J written consent in person,
r
■ or by
J attorney,
J > filed now
shall proceed.
with the clerk.
Third, By oral consent in open court, entered on the
journal.
Sec. 280. Upon the trial of questions of fact by the The court -haii
. ,.
,
pi
r i stale its findcourt, it shall not be necessary tor the court to state its find- ing generally,
except \v h <. n
mg, except generally, for the plaintiff or defendant, unless requeued, etc.
one of the parties request it, with the view of excepting to
the decision of the court upon the questions of law involved
in the trial ; in which case the court shall state in writing
the conclusions of fact found, separately from the conclusions
of law.
Trial by lleferees.
Trlai i,y nr
Sec. 281. All or any of the issues in the action, whether''"
of fact or of law, or of both, may be referred, upon the
written consent of the parties, or upon their oral consent in
court, entered upon the journal.
Sec. 282. When the parties do not consent, the court r°urt mi>> <l>1
rect a reference
may, upon the application of either, or of its own motion,
direct a reference, in all cases in which parties are not enti
tled by the constitution and laws of the United States to trial
hJ jurySec. 283. The trial before referees is conducted in the How trial i>e. i
mi >i
' ° ''<' referee*
same manner as a trial by court.
1 hey have the same power ^n'1 be c<m" '
ducted.
to summon and enforce the attendance of witnesses, admin
ister oaths, and to grant adjournments, as the court upon
such trial. They must state the facts found and the conclu
sion of law separately, and their decisions must be given and
may be excepted to and reviewed in like manner. The
report of the referees upon the whole issue, stands as the
decision of the court, and judgment may be entered thereon in
the same manner as if the action had been tried by the court.
When the reference is to report the facts, the report has the
effect of a special verdict,
rhc
parties
Sec. 284.
In all cases of reference, the parties,
except
may agree
upoii referees, when an infant may be a party, may agree upon a suitable
appoint.
person or persons, not exceeding three, and the reference shall
be ordered accordingly ; and if the parties do not agree, the
court shall appoint one or more referees, not exceeding
three, who shall be free from exception.
Probate court
Sec. 285. A reference, as provided in this titJe, cannot
cannot order
1
[.','ftor2es' conIDe ordered by a probate court, except by consent of the parnt'nt,
ties to the reference and referees.
Referees shall
Sec. 286. It shall bv the duty of the referees to sign
s i jr n ex eep"
^
tions.
any true exceptions taken to any order or decision by them
made in the case, and return the same, with their report, to
the court making the reference.
•inii'-c in varaSec. 287. A judge in vacation, upon the written consent
tion. upon con-
i-ii
Kent, of parties, oi the parties, may make an order of reference, which the
may order ref.
".
erence.
court, of winch he is a member, could make in term time.
In such case, the order of reference shall be made on the
written agreement of the parties to refer, and shall be filed
with the clerk of tiie court, with the other papers in the case.
Referees must

Si>C. 288. The referees must be sworn or affirmed, well
and faithfully to hear and examine the cause, and to make a
just and true report therein, according to the best of their
understanding. The oath may be administered by any per
son authorized to take depositions.
Compensation
Sec. 289. The referees shall be allowed such compensaof referees.
.
.
,
turn for their services as the court may deem just and proper,
which shall be taxed as a part of the costs in the case.
Exceptions.
Exceptions.

Sec. 2!*0. An exception is an objection taken to a decis
ion of the court upon a matter of law.
(Error in numbering; no section left out.)

Must except at

Sec. 300. The party objecting to the decision must except
at the time the decision is made, and time may given to
reduce the exception to writing, but not beyond the term.
No form is reSec. 301. No particular form of exception is required.
The exception must be stated, with so much of the evidence 
as is necessary to explain it and no more, and the whole as
briefly as possible.
Sec. 302. When the decision objected
to is entered on the cud
M-y olexcept
at
J
decision
record, and the grounds of objection appear on the entry, the
exception may be taken by the party causing to be noted, at
the end of the decision, that he excepts.
Sec. 803. When the decision is not entered on the record in some cases.
y. .
.
pany nnisi itor the &grounds of objection
do not sufficiently
appear
in the duce
his exJ
.
.
cept Jon* in
entry,
the
party
excepting
must
reduce
his
exception
to
writwriting
ami
present them
ing, and present it to the court for its allowance. If true, it to the court.
shall be the duty of a majority of the judges composing the
court, or of the judge or court before whom the case was or
is being tried, to allow and sign it, whereupon it shall be filed.
with the pleadings as a part of the record, but not spread at
large upon the journal. If the Writing is not true, the court
shall correct it, or suggest the correction to be made, and it
shall then be signed as aforesaid.
Sec. 304. No exception shall be regarded unless it is >. x < > t 1 it II
material and prejudicial to the substantial rights of the party rerb
excepting.
Sec. 305. Exceptions taken to the decision of any court Except ion of record may, by leave of such court, be withdrawn from the drawn,
files by the party taking the same, at any time before pro
ceedings in error are commenced, and before the exceptions
are recorded.
New Trial,
Sec. 306. Anew trial is a re-examination in the same now trial,
court of an issue of fact after a verdict by a jury, report of a
referee or a decision by the court.
The former verdict,
report or decision shall be vacated and a new* trial granted on
the application of the party aggrieved, for any of the follow
ing causes affecting materially the substantial rights of such
party :
First. Irregularity in the proceedings of the court, jury,
referee or prevailing party, or any order of the court or
referee, or of abuse of discretion, by which the party was
prevented from having a fair trial.
Second, Misconduct of the jury or prevailing* party.
Third, Accident or surprise which ordinary prudence
could not have guarded against.
Fourth, Excessive damages, appearing to have been given
under the influence of passion or prejudice.
Fifth, Error in the assessment of the amount of recovery.
whether too large or too small, where the action is upon a
contract, or for the injury or detention of property.
Sixth, That the verdict, report or decision is not sustained
by sufficient evidence, or is contrary to law.
Seventh, Newly discovered evidence material for the party
applying, which he could not with reasonable diligence have
discovered and produced at trial.
Eighth, Error of law occurring at the trial, and excepted

to by the party making the application.
New trial not
Sec. 307. A new trial shall not be granted on account
granted on hc°
count of email- of the smallness of the damages in an action for an injurv to
-U'S* oi dam°
J J
"*'*•
the person or reputation, nor any other action where the
damages shall equal the actual pecuniary injury sustained.
When appncaSec. 308. The application for a new trial must be made
lion must be
.
made.
at the term the verdict, report or decision is rendered, and
except for the cause of newly discovered evidence, material
for the party applying, which he could not with reasonable
diligence have discovered and produced at the trial, shall be
within three days after the verdict or decision was rendered,
unless unavoidably prevented.
v
now appncaSec. 309. The application must be by motion, upon
mad.>.
"written grounds, filed at the time of making the motion.
The causes enumerated in subdivisions two, three and seven
of section three hundred and six, must be sustained by affi
davits showing their truth, and« may be controverted by
affidavits.
New trial after
Sec 310. Where the grounds for a new trial could not,
K-rm.
.
°
with reasonable diligence, have been discovered before, but are
discovered after the term at which the verdict, report of ref
eree or decision was rendered or made, the application may be
made by petition, filed as in other cases, on which a summons
shall issue, be returnable, and served, or publication made, as
prescribed in section sixty-eight.
The facts stated in the
petition shall #be considered as denied without answer, and if
the service shall be complete in vacation, the case shall be heard
and summarily decided at the ensuing term.
The case shall he placed on the trial docket, and the witnesses shall be
examined in open court, or their depositions taken as in other
cases ; but no such petition shall be filed more than one year
after the final judgment was rendered.
,
General Provisions.
Sec. 811. Whenever damages are recoverable, the plain- Dam ages rv.
,
P -,
i'ii
coverable.
tin may claim and recover any rate of damages to which lie
may be entitled for the cause of action established.
Sec. 312. The provisions of this title respecting trials by
jury, apply, so far as they are in their nature applicable, to
trials by the court.
Time of Trial.
Sec. 313. The clerks of courts of record shall keep at Time of trial.
least five books, to be called the appearance docket, the trial
docket, the joarnal, the record, and execution docket.
Sec. 814. On the appearance docket he shall enter all cierk shall ch.
-11
i
iii
pi
*er actions oiv
actions in order in which they are Drought, the date ol the appear an<e
summons, the time of the return thereof by the officer, and
his return thereon, the time of filing the petition, all subse
quent pleadings.
Sec. 315. The trial docket shall be made out by the clerk Trial docket.
of the court at least twelve days before the first day of each
term of the court, and the actions shall be set for particular
days, in the order in which the issues were made up, whether
of law or of fact, and so arranged that the cases set for each
day shall be tried as nearly as may be on that day. For the
purpose of arranging said docket, an issue shall be considered
as made up when either party is in default of pleading.
Sec. 316. The trial of an issue of fact, and the assess- Trials ciinii
proceed in ih'.'
nicnt ot damages in any case, shall be in the order m which order they arc
°
"
arranged on
they are placed on the trial docket, unless, by consent of the the llial docket
parties or order of the court, they are continued or placed at
the foot of the docket. The time of hearing all other cases
shall be in the order in which they are placed on the docket,
unless the court, in its discretion, shall otherwise direct. The
court may, in its discretion, hear at any time a motion, and
may, by rule, prescribe the time for hearing motions.
Shaii bc frj„<i
Sec. 317. Actions shall be triable at the first term of the Sm.'1" fir"•court, after the issues therein, by the times fixed for pleading,

»-r docket.

are, or should have been, made up ; and when, by the times
fixed for pleading, the issues are, or should have been, made
up during a term, such actions shall be triable at that term.
When the issues are, or should have been, made up, either
before or during a term of court, but after the period for
preparing a trial docket of such term, the clerk, if required
by the court, shall place such actions on the trial docket of
that term.
Sec. 318. The clerk shall make out a copy of the trial
docket for the use of the bar before the first day of the term
of the court.
Evidence— Competency of Witnesses.

Witnesses.

Sec. 319. No person shall be disqualified as a witness, in
any civil action or proceeding, by reason of his interest in
the event of the same, as a party or otherwise, or by reason
of his conviction of a crime; but such interest or conviction
may be shown for the purpose of affecting his credibility.
Sec. 320. No party shall be allowed to testify by virtue
of section three hundred and nineteen when the adverse party
is the guardian of an idiot, or a lunatic, or a deaf and dumb
person, or the executor or administrator of a deceased person,
or the guardian of a child or children of a deceased person,
when the facts to be proved transpired before the death of such
deceased persons, except in suits upon contracts which shall
have been entered into by deceased persons, by agents, in
which eases, if the agent be a witness, the opposite party may
testify as to all that transpired between such party and the
agent in relation to such contract, and the making of the
same; excepting, also, cases where the claim or defense is
founded on book account, then the party shall be permitted
to testify that the entries are in his handwriting, that the book
containing the same is his book of original entries, and if the
original entries in said book of accounts have been made by a
person who at the time of such trial is deceased, or a disin
terested person, who is a non-resident of the Territory,
on proof of such decease and non-residence, and that
said entries are in the hand-writing of such person, or such proof by the party as hereinbefore provided, then
it shall be competent. to admit said book of original entries as
evidence, the weight to be given to such evidence in either
case, however, being left to the court or jury to determine ;
and in all actions by or against a surviving partner or part
ners, or a surviving joint contractor or contractors, any party
to the action shall be incompetent as a witness to testify to
transactions which took place with, or declarations or admis
sions made by the deceased partner or joint contractor, in the
absence of surviving partner or joint contractor. The depo- DepoeitioH.
sition of a party shall not be used in his own behalf, unless
the legal notice required in the cases where depositions are to
be taken shall also specify that the deposition to be taken is
that of the party ; provided, that if the deposition of a party
be taken in any pending suit, and such party shall die before
the trial thereof, it shall be lawful for the opposite party to
testify as to all matters contained in said deposition.
Sec. 321. The following persons shall be incompetent to person* im-<>mpotuill

testily :

First, Persons who are of unsound mind at the time of
their production for examination.
Second, Children under ten years of age, who appear in
capable of receiving just impressions of the facts respecting
which they are examined, or of relating them truly.
Third, Husband and wife, for or against each other, or
concerning any communication made by one to the other, dur
ing the marriage, whether called as a witness while that rela
tion subsisted, or afterwards, except in actions where the
wife, were she a femme sole, would be plaintiff or defendant ;
in which action the wife may testify. In such case either the
husband or wife may testify, but not both.
Fourth, An attorney, concerning any communication made
to him by his client, in that relation, or his advice thereon,
without the client's consent.
Fifth, A clergyman or priest, concerning any confession
made to him in his professional character, in the course of
discipline enjoined by the church to which he belongs, with
out the consent of the person making the confession.
Sixth, No person who would, if a party, be incompetent to testify under the provisions of section three hundred and
twenty-one, shall become competent by reason of an assign
ment of his claim.
Sec. 322. If a person ofter himself as a witness, that is
to be deemed, a consent to the examination also of an attorney,
clergyman or priest, on the same subject, within the meaning
of the last two subdivisions of the preceding section.
Sec. 323. The clerks -of the several courts, and judges
of the probate courts, shall, upon application of any person
having a cause or matter pending in the court, issue a sub
poena for witnesses under the seal of the court, inserting all
the names required by the applicant in one subpoena, which
may be served by the sheriff, coroner, or any constable of
the county, or any other person. When a subpoena is noi
served by a sheriff, coroner or constable, proof of the service
shall be shown by affidavit ; but no costs of service of the
same shall be allowed, except when served by an officer.

The :uibiH>eua.

"

Sec. 32-1. The subpoena shall be directed to the person
therein named, requiring him to attend at a particular time
and place, to testify as a witness; and it may contain a clause
directing; the witness to bring with him anv book, writing, or
other thing under his control, which he is bound by law to
produce as evidence.
Sec. 325. When the attendance of a witness before anv
officer authorized to take depositions is required, the subpoena
,
shall be issued by the officer.
*.'<"".'.&.
Sec. 326. The subpoena shall be served either by read
ing, or by copy delivered to the witness or left at his usual
place of residence; but such copy need not contain the name
.
of
anv
A witness not
J other witness.
i'-ncC'except* '

Seo. 327. A witness shall not be obliged to attend for
examination on the trial of a civil action, except in the
county of his residence, unless in case of change of venue,
nor attend to give his deposition out of the county where he
resides, or where he may be when the subpoena is served
upon him.
"•!mmd,fce",'V Sec. 328. A witness may demand his traveling fees, and fee for one day's attendance, when the subpoena is served
.upon him, and if the same is not paid, the witness shall not
be obliged to obey the subpoena. The fact of such demand
and non-pavment shall be stated in the return.
Sec. 329. Disobedence of a subpoena or refusal to be Disobedience
. .
of witness is
sworn, or to answer as a witness, or to subscribe a deposition, contempt.
when lawfullly ordered, may be punished as a contempt of
the court or officer by whom his attendance or testimony is
required.
Sec. 330. When a witness fails to attend in obedience to Attachment
may issue for
a subpoena, (except in case of a demand and failure to pay witness,
his fees,) the court or officer before whom his attendance is
required, may issue an attachment to the sheriff, coroner or
constable of the county, commanding him to arrest and bring
the person therein named before the court or officer,
at a time and place to be fixed in the attachment, to give his
testimony and answer for the contempt. If the attachment
be not for immediately bringing the witness before the court
<ir officer, a sum shall be fixed in which the witness may
give an undertaking with surety for his appearance. Such
sum shall be indorsed on the back of the attchment, and .if
no sum is so fixed and indorsed, it shall be one hundred dol
lars. If the witness be not personally served, the court may,
by a rule, order him to show cause why an attachment
should not issue against him.
Sec. 331. The punishment for the contempt mentioned The ounhOt,
liii
i
ment for suclt
m section three hundred and twenty-rune shall be as follows : contempt.
When a witness fails to attend in obedience to the subpoena,
(except in case of a demand and failure to pay his fees,) the
court or officers may fine the witness in a sum not exceeding
fifty dollars. In other cases, the court or officer may fine
the witness in a sum not exceeding fifty dollars, and may im
prison him in the county jail, there to remain until he shall
submit to be sworn, to testify, or give his deposition. The
fine imposed by the cowrt shall be paid int© the county
treasury, and that imposed by the officer shall be for the use
of the party for whom the witness was subpoenaed. The wit
ness shall also be liable to the party injured, for any damages- occasioned by his failure to attend, or his refusal to be sworn,
to testify or give his deposition.
a witness imSec. 332. A witness so imprisoned by an officer before
prisoned may
apply
to
be
diswhom
the deposition
is beinj*
charged.
'
° taken, may
J apply
i r J to a Jiud<re
a ot
the supreme court, district court, or probate court, who shall
have power to discharge him if it appears that his imprison
ment is illegal.
Attachment
Sec. 333. Every attachment for the arrest or order of
must be under
#
wai
and
spedcommitment
to prison
ot a witness bv
a court or officer, *p'irfy eause, etc.
l
J
suant to this title, must be under the seal of the court or
officer, if he have an official seal, and must specify particularly
the cause of the arrest and commitment, and may be directed to
the sheriff, coroner or any constable of the county where the wit
ness resides, or may be at the time, and shall be executed by
committing him to the jail of such county, and delivering a
copy of the order to the jailor.
a person im^ECi ^34. A person confined in any prison in this Terrib'e'producedfor tory, may, by order of any court of record, be required to 1 ii>'xanimatlon.
produced, for oral examination in the county where he is im
prisoned; but in all other cases, his examination must be by
deposition.
Prisoner in
Sec. 335. While a prisoner's deposition is being taken,
hu deposition he shall remain in custody of the officer having him in
e ng a en. cnat.g0j wno gj,all afford reasonable facilities for the taking
of the deposition.
Witness not
Sec. 336. A witness shall not be liable to be sued in n
where he doe's county in which he does not reside, by being served with a sumnot reside. mons in such county, while going, returning or attending in
obedience to the subpoena.
Witnefi mtiy
demand fees.

witness must
be sworn.

Sec. 337. At the commencement of each day after the
„
.
.
nrst day, a witness may demand his lees for that day s atten
dance in obedience to a subpoena, and if the same be not
paid, he shall not be required to remain.
SEC. 338.

Before testifying, the witness shall be sworn to
J

G'

testify the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth.
The mode of administering the oath shall be such as is most
binding upon the conscience of the witness.
Sec. 339. The testimony
of witnesses may
be taken in Mode
of taking
■*
*
t e s timonv of
three modes,—
witnesses.
First, By affidavit.
Second, By deposition.
Third, By oral examination.
Sec. 340. An affidavit is a written declaration under AtMavi;.
oath, made without notice to the adverse party.
Sec. 341. A deposition is a written declaration, under Deposition,
oath, made upon notice to the adverse party, for the purpose
of enabling him to attend and cross-examine; or upon writ
ten interrogatories.
Sec. 342. An oral examination is an examination in the Oral examina
tion,
presence of the jury or tribunal which is to decide the fact or
act upon it, the testimony being heard by the jury or tribunal
from the lips of the witness.
Affidavit.
Sec. 343. The affidavit may be used to verify a pleading, Affidavit.
to prove the service of a summons, notice or other process in
the action, to obtain a provisional remedy, the examination of
a witness, a stay of proceedings, or upon a motion, and in any
other case permitted by law.
Sec. 344. An affidavit may be made in and out of this May be made
, ,
.
.
In ami out ol
territory, before any person authorized to take depositions, Territory,
and must be authenticated in the same way, except as provi
ded in section one hundred and eight.
Depositions.
Sec. 345. The depositions of any witness may be usedDepO8itl0n,
only in the fid lowing cases:
lilt.1* "''""
First. When the witness does not reside in the county
where the action or proceeding is pending, or is sent for trial
by change of venue, or is absent therefrom.
Second, When from age, infirmity or imprisonment, the
witness is unable to attend the court, or is dead.
Third, When the testimony is required/ upon a motion, or
in any other case where the oral examination of the witness
is not required.
Fourth, And in cases of appeal from justices courts.
Sec. 346. Either party may commence taking testimony
by depositions, at any time after service upon the defendant.

Officers who may Take Them.
who may take
Sec. 347. Depositions mav be taken in this Territory
depositions In . „
.Territory.
before a judge or clerk ot the supreme or district court, or be
fore a probate judge, justice of the peace, notary public,
mayor or chief magistrate of any city or town corporate, or
before a master, commissioner, or any person empowered by a
special commission; but depositions taken in this Territory,
to be used therein, must be taken by an officer or person
whose authority is derived within the Territory.
who may take
Sec. 348. Depositions may be taken out of the Territorv
deposi t 1 ons T
,
.
1T
0
0
.
out ofTerritory by a judge, justice or chancellor oi any court of record, a jus
tice of the peace, notary public, mayor or chief magistrate of
any city or town corporate, a commissioner appointed by the
Govenor of this Territory to take depositions, or any person
authorized by a special commission from this Territory.
officer must
Sec. 34!t. The officer before whom depositions are taken
nor he related
,
,
,. . ,
.
or interested, must not be a relative or attorney of either party, or other
wise interested in the event of an action or proceeding.
commission
Sec? 350. Any
court of record of this Territorv, or any
to take depoJ
•
sition.
judge thereof, is authorized to grant a commission to take
depositions within or without the Territory. The commission
must be issued to a person or persons therein named by the
clerk, under the seal of the court granting the same, and
depositions under it must be taken upon written interroga
tories, unless the parties otherwise agree.
Manner of Taking and Authenticating Them.
Manner
of
takSec.
351. . Prior to taking
unless taken
ing and an° of any
J deposition,
L
thenticating
under
a
special
commission,
a
written
notice,
specifying
the
depositions.
*
r
J
°
action or proceeding, the name of the court or tribunal in
which it is to be used, and the time and place of taking the
same, shall be served upon the adverse party, his agent or
attorney of record, or left at his usual place of abode. The
notice shall be served so as to allow the adverse party suffi
cient time by the usual route of travel to attend, and one day
for preparation, exclusive of Sundays and the day of service,
and the examination may, if so stated in the notice, be ad
journed from day to day.
Sec. 352. When the party
against
whom the deposition
Notice
ltcatlonlo take
is to be read is absent from, or a non-resident of the Terri- depositions,
tory, and has no agent or attorney of record therein, he may
be notified of the taking of the depositions by publication.
The publication must be made three consecutive weeks, in
some newspaper printed in the county in which the action or
proceeding is pending ; or, if there be no paper printed in the
county, then in some newspaper printed in this Territory, of
general . circulation in that county. The publication must
contain all that is required in a written notice, and may be
proved in the manner prescribed in section sixty-nine.
Sec. 353. The deposition shall be written in the presence dcj>om t 
• shall be writot the officer taking the same, either by the oifieer, the wit- ten, etc.
ness, or some disinterested person, and subscribed by the wit
ness.
Sec. 354. The deposition so taken shall be sealed up simn v «-at...
<• i e0-i addressed.
ana indorsed with the title ot the cause and the name ot the remain under
officer taking the same, and by biin addressed and transmitted
to the clerk of the court at here the action or proceeding is
pending. It shall remain under seal until opened by the
clerk, by order of the court, or at the request of a party to
the action or proceeding, or his attorney.
Sec. 'd^>5. Depositions taken pursuant to this article shall Deposition*
..
....
. .
i
. , P
. .,
.
shall be :iilha admitted in evidence on the trial ot any civil action or pro- mitted in evj,.,
.
.
,, ,"
deuce, etc.
ceeding pending before any justice of the peace, mayor, or
other judicial officer of a city or town corporate, or before
any arbitrators or referees; and such depositions shall be
sealed up, indorsed with the title of the action or proceeding,
the name of the officer taking the same, and addressed and
transmitted by such officer to such justice, mayor or other
judicial officer, arbitrators or referees.
Sec. 356. When a deposition has once been taken, it Deposition
i
i .
e .i
..
v
mav be user! in
inav be read m anv stage ot the same action or proceeding, different ae.
..
.
lions between
or in any other action or proceeding upon the same matter same parties.
between the same parties—subject, however, to all such ex
ceptions as may be taken thereto under the provisions of this
title.
Sec. 357. Depositions taken pursuant to this article by any a a t it e u t i cajudicial or other officer herein authorized to take depositions, tiona. having a seal of office, whether resident of this Territory or
elsewhere, shall be admitted in evidence, upon the certificate
and signature of such officer, under seal of the court of
which he is an officer, or his official seal, and no other or fur
ther act or authentication shall be required. If the officer'
taking the same have no official seal, the deposition, if not
taken in this Terrirory, shall be certified and signed by such
officer, and shall be further authenticated, either by parol
proof adduced in court, or by the official certificate and seal
of any secretary or other officer of state keeping the great
seal thereof, or by the clerk or prothonotary of the court, hav
ing a seal, attesting that such judicial or other officer was.
at the time of taking the same, within the meaning of this
title, authorized to take the same. But if the deposition be
taken within this Territory, by an officer having no seal, or
within this Territory under a special commission, it shall be
sufficiently authenticated by the official signature of the officer
ov commission taking the same.
o:iu-cr shatr
Sec. 358. The officer taking the deposition shall annex
rate i<> deposi- thereto a certificate showing the following facts :
First, That the witness was first sworn to testify the truth,
the whole truth, and nothing but the truth.
Second, That the deposition was reduced to writing by
some proper person (naming him).
Third, That the deposition was written and subscribed in
the presence of the officer certifying thereto.
Fourth, That the deposition was taken at the time and
place specified in the notice.
\\iien deposiSec. 859. When a deposition is offered to be read in eviiii""videnct'.t'it dence, %\ must appear to the satisfaction of the court that for
must be shown
iii at witness any cause specified m section three hundred and torty-nve,
cannot be pro- .
i
r i
•
,
i
dutvii.
ttie attendance oi the witness cannot be procured.
jinsi be- tiled
Sec. 360. Every deposition intended to be read in eviime day ftefore
.
.
trial.
dence on the trial must !>e filed at least oue day before the
day of trial.
Exceptions to Depositions.
Exceptions to
Sec. ^>'l. Exceptions to depositions shall be in writing,
depositions, specifying the grounds of objection, and filed with the papers
in the cause-.
Sec. 362. No exception, other than for incompetency or
irrelevancy, shall be regarded, unless made and filed before
the commencement of the trial.
Sec. 363. The court shall, on motion of either party, court shall
hear and dehear and decide the questions arising on exceptions to depo- cide on motion.
sitions, before the commencement of the trial.
Sec . 364. Errors of the court, in its decisions upon excep- Errors waived
, i ,
if not excepted
tions to depositions, are waived unless excepted to.
to.
Admissions, Inspections and Production of Documents.
Sec. 365. Either party may exhibit to the other or to Admission «.
his attorney, at any time before the trial, any paper or docu- a'n'd0p ro'im'
,
lions of writment material to the action, and request an admission in ins* and docu• •
c .
.
Te l
i
i . m'-'uts'
writing ot its genuineness. It the adverse party or his
attorney, fail to give the admission in writing within four
days after the request, and if the party exhibiting the paper
or document be afterwards put to any cost or expense to
prove its genuineness, and the same be finally proved or ad
mitted on the trial, such costs and expenses, to be ascertained
at the trial, shall be paid by the party refusing to make the
admission, unless he shall make it appear to the satisfaction.,
of the court, that there were good reasons for the refusal.
Sec. 366. Either party or his attornev may also demand Eii her party

maJ* demand
ot the adverse party, an inspection and copy, or permission of i he other an
p
.
inspection and
to take a copy of a book, paper, or .document in his posses- copy of writsion, or under his control, containing evidence relating to the
merits of the action or defense therein. Such demand shall
be in writing, specifying the book, paper or document, with
sufficient particularity to enable the other party to distinguish
it, and if compliance with the demand, within four days, be
refused, the court or judge, on motion and notice to the ad
verse party, may, in their discretion, order the adverse party
to give the other, within the specified time, an inspection and
copy or permission to take a copy of such book, paper or
document; and on failure to comply
with, such order,'. the comply
"n failure I he
to
1 J
court may
exclude the paper or. document from being given
coon
may <.'*.J
.
elude.
in evidence, or if wanted as evidence by the party applying,
may direct the jury to presume it to be such as the party, by
affidavit, alleges it to be. This section is not to be construed to prevent a party from compelling another to produce any
book, paper or document, when he is examined as a witness.
opposite party
Sec. 307. Either party, or his attorney, if required, shall
shall furn I sh
,
. .
'
p
copy of <issd or deliver to the other party, or his attorney, a copy ot any
oilier instru.
...
,
i
.
ment.
deed, instrument or other writing, whereon the action or
defense is founded, or which he intends to offer in evidence at
the trial. If the plaintiff or defendant shall refuse to furnish
the copy or copies required, the party so refusing shall not
be permitted to give in evidence at the trial, the original of
which a copy has been refused. This section shall not apply
to any paper, a copy of which is filed with a pleading.
statutes of
Sec. 368. Printed volumes, in1 volumes of statutes, codes,
other states
evidence.
0r other written law, enacted by any other state or territory,
or foreign government, purporting or proved to have been
published by the authority thereof, or proved to be commonly
admitted as evidence of the existing law, in the courts or
Reports pre- tribunals of such state, territoiv or government, shall be adsumptlve evi"
°
deuce of law. mitted by the courts and officers of this Territory, on all
occasions, as presumptive evidence of such laws. The un
written or common law of any other state, territory or foreign
government may be proved as facts by parol evidence; and
the books of reports of cases adjudged in their courts may
also be admitted as presumptive evidence of such law.
Certificate or
Sec. 3t111. The official certificate of a justice of the peace
justice of the
.
.
.
peace
of
forot
any
ot the tinted
Mates to
an v judgment, and the preeiirn states. .
. J
-,.> n
.
liminary proceeding before him, supported by. the official
certificate of the clerk of any court of record within the
county in which such justice resides, stating that he is an
acting justice of the peace of that county, and that the signa-.
ture of his certificate is genuine, is sufficient evidence of such
proceedings and judgment.
Proceedings to Perpetuate Testimony.
Proceedings to
Sec. 3T0. The testimony
of a witness may
be perpetuated
"
"
x
L
limony.
m the following manner:
'the applicant
gEC. 371. The applicant shall file in the office of the
shall tile in the
1 1
i>e7iu'on°etcB " clel'k of the district court a petition, to be verified, in which
perpetuate tes- #

shall be set forth, specially, the subject matter relative to
which testimony is to be taken, and the names of. the persons interested, if known to the applicant ; anil if not known, such
general description as he can give of such persons, as heirs,
devisees, alienees or otherwise. The petition shall also state
the names of the witnesses to be examined, and the interro
gatories to be propounded to each ; that the applicant expects
to be a party to an action in a court of this Territory, in which
such testimony will, as he believes, be material, and the ob
stacles preventing the immediate commencement of the action
where the applicant expects to be the plaintiff.
Sec. 372. The court or a judge thereof may forthwith The court or
j u d S *-' m a >'
make an order allowing the examination of such witnesses, make an order.
The order shall prescribe the time and place of the examina
tion, how long the parties interested shall be notified thereof,
and the manner in which they shall be notified.
Sec. 373. When it appears satisfactorily to the court or The court shalli
-r> i appoint nn atiud<rc
that the parties
interested. cannot be personally
notified,'amine
torney to witexJ such court or judge shall appoint a competent attorney to ex- m-sscs.
amine the petition and prepare and file cross-interrogatories of
those contained therein. The witnesses shall be examined
upon the interrogatories of the applicant, and upon cross-inter
rogatories, where they are required to be prepared, and no
others shall be propounded to them ; nor shall any statement
be received which is not responsive to some one of them. The
attorney filing the cross-interrogatories shall be allowed a
reasonable fee therefor, to be taxed-in the bill of costs.
Sec. 374. Such depositions s"hall be taken before some one simii betaken
before s o m e
authorized by
law to take depositions,
or before some one to
onetake
authorized
J
1
depostspecially authorized by the court or judge, and shall be re- |i,,<ls
turned to the clerk's office of the court in which the petition
was filed.
Sec. 375. The court or judge, if satisfied that the deposi- The court shall
ii-n approve the
tions have been properly taken, and as herein required, shall testimony and
1 1
^
-i • .
•
order it tiled.
approve the same and order them to be filed ; and, it a trial be
had between the parties named in the petition, or their priors
or successors in interest, such depositions or certified copies
thereof, may be given in evidence by either party, where the
witnesses are dead or insane, or where their attendance for
oral examination cannot be obtained or required ; but such
depositions shall be subject to the same objections for ir relevancy and incompetency as may be made to depositions
taken pending an action.
Appiic't shall
Sec. 376. The applicant shall pay the costs of all proceedpay costs.
Sec. 377. A judgment is the final determination of the
rights of parties in action:
May be given
Sec. 378. Judgment may be given for or against one or
one or more "of more of several plaintiffs, and for or against one or more of
u p"r es.
geverai defendants; it may determine the ultimate rights of
the parties on either side, as between themselves, and it may
grant to the defendant any affirmative relief to which he may
be entitled. In an action against several defendants the court
may, in its discretion, render judgment against one or more
of them, leaving the action to proceed against the others.
whenever a several judgment may be proper. The court may
The court mav a's0 dismiss the petition with costs, in favor of one or more
petiuonta ""'defendants, in case of unreasonable neglect on the part of the
plaintiff to serve the summons on other defendants, or to pro
ceed in the cause against the defendant or defendants served.
The case may
Sec. 379. An action may be dismissed without prejudice
be dismissed
wi;hout pieju-to a tuture action: —
First, By the plaintiff, before the final submission of the
case to the jury, or to the court, where the trial is by the
court.
Second, By the court, where the plaintiff fails to appear on
the trial.
Third, By the court, for want of necessary parties.
Fourth, By the court, on application of some of the de
fendants, where there are others whom the plaintiff fails to
prosecute with diligence.
Fifth, By the court, for disobedience1 by the plaintiff of
an order concerning the proceedings in the action. In all
other cases, upon the trial of the action, the decision must be
upon the merits.
Defendant may
Sec 380. In any case where a set-off or counter claim
Sffiff'piainti'.i' has been presented, the defendant shall have the right of pro
ceeding to the trial of his claim, although the plaintiff may
have dismissed the action or failed to appear.
Sec. 381. In actions to enforce a mortgage or other lien Mortgage.
or charge; a personal judgment shall be rendered for the
amount due, with interest, and for the sale of the property
charged, and the application of the proceeds, or such applica
tion may be reserved for further order of the court. When
the same mortgage embraces separate tracts of land, situated
in two or more counties, the sheriff of each county shall
make sale of the lands situated in the county of which he is
sheriff.
Sec. 38'2. When the judgment
shall be rendered
for
a Release,
con.
.
- i
m
veyance, ar-conveyance, release or acquittance, in any court of the Ler- quittance.
ritory, and the party against whom a judgment shall be ren
dered, does not comply therewith by the time appointed,
such judgment shall have the same operation and effect, and
be as available as if the conveyance, release or acquittance,
had been executed conformably to such judgment.
Judgment upon Failure to Answer.
Sec. 383. If the taking of an account, of the proof of a fact, judgm't upon
,
...
,
ill
failure to unor the assessment ot damages, be necessary to enable the court -wer.
to pronounce judgment upon a failure to answer, or after the
decision of an issue of law, the court may, with the assent of
the party not in default, take the account, hear the proof, or
assess the damages, or may, with the like assent, refer the
same to a referee, master or commissioner, or may direct the
same to be ascertained or assessed by a jury. If a jury be
ordered, it shall be on or after the day on which the action is
set for trial.
Judgment by Confession.
Sec. 384. Any person indebted, or against whom a
cause ot action exists, may personally appear, in a court or
competent jurisdiction, and with the assent of the creditor or
person having such cause of action, confess judgment there
for, whereupon judgment shall be entered accordingly.
Sec. 385. The debt or cause of action shall be briefly
stated in the judgment, or in writing, to be filed as pleadings
.
.
in other actions.
Sec. 386. Such judgment shall authorize the same pro
ceedings for its enforcement as judgment rendered in action

party may cob-

cause of actum
nWe6 "jiuu.'in en t, o r in
writing, etc. regularly brought and prosecuted ; and the confessions shall
operate as a release of errors.
Attorney must Sec. 387. Every attorney who shall confess judgment
rant toDconfcs* in any case, shall, at the time of making such confession,
judgment. produce the warrant ol attorney lor making the same, to the
court before which he makes the confession, and the original
or copy of the warrant shall be filed with the clerk of the
'court in which the judgment shall be entered,
it person is in
Skc. 388. If any person be in custody in a civil action,
rant must
at the suit of another, no warrant of attorney executed by the
witnessed.
person in custody, to confess judgment in favor of the person
at whose suit he is in custody, shall be of any force, unless
some attorney expressly named by the person in custody be
present, and sign the warrant of attorney as a witness.
Manner of Giving and Entering Judgment.
Entering jngdSkc. 389. When a trial by jury has been had, judgment
meni.
must be rendered by the court in conformity to the verdict,
unless it is special, or the court order the case to be reserved
for future argument or consideration.
What juiitcSec. 390. Where the verdict is special, or where there
meni shall be entered.
has been a special finding on particular questions ol tact, or
- where the court has ordered the case to be reserved., it shall
v
order what judgment shall be entered,
jndirment renSec. 391. Where, upoii the statements in the pleadings,
ilered accord.
. , ,
.
.
.
inir to law.
one party is entitled by law to judgment in his favor, judg
ment shall be so rendered by the court, though a verdict has
been found against such party.
judgment for
Sec. 392. If a counter-claim or set-off established at the
defendant fur
,..„,,..
.
excess.
trial exceeds the plaintiff s claim so established, judgment for
the defendant must be given for the excess ; or if it appear
that the defendant is entitled to. any affirmative relief, judg
ment shall be given therefor.
nights or iuSec. 393. It shall not be necessary to reserve, in a
fnnt

judgment or order, the right of an infant to show cause
against it, after his attaining full age; but in any case in
which, but for this section, such reservation would have been
proper, the infant, within one year after arriving at the age
of twenty-one years, may show cause against such order or
judgment.
Sec. 394. All judgments and orders must be entered on .Tndgints must
the journal of the court, and specify clearly the relief granted specify, etc!
or order made in the action.
Sec. 395. The clerk shall make a complete record of The clerk shall
everv cause as soon as it is finally determined, unless such
record, or some part thereof, be duly waived.
Sec. 396. He shall make up such record in each cause, Record signed
in the vacation next after the term after which the same was i
felB
determined, and the presiding judge of such court shall, at
it's next term thereafter, subscribe the same.
Sec. 3!>T.

The records shall be made up1 from the petition
Record*
made
x
irom. etc.

the process, return, the pleadings subsequent thereto, reports,
verdicts, orders, judgments, and all material acts and pro
ceedings of the court; but if the items of an account or the
copies of a paper attached to the proceedings are voluminous,
the court may order the record to be made by abbreviating
the same, or inserting a permanent description thereof, or by
omitting them entirely. Evidence must not be recorded.
Sec 398. When the judicial acts or other proceedings court order
of anv court have not been regularly brought up and recorded up.""
by the clerk thereof, such court shall cause the same to be
made up and recorded within such time as it may direct.
When they are made up, and on examination found to be cor
rect, the presiding judge of such court shall subscribe the
same.
Sec. 399. Section three hundred and ninety-five shall not Section' s-s
shaii not npapply—
ply. etc.
First. In criminal prosecutions where the indictment has
been quashed, or where the prosecuting attorney shall have
entered a nolle prosequi on the indictment.
Second, In cases where an action has been dismissed with
out prejudice to a future action, as provided in section three
hundred and seventy-nine.
Third, In all actions in which, in open court, at the term
at which the final order or judgment shall be made, both
parties shall declare their agreement that no record shall be
made.
Sec. 400.

In cases where an action has been dismissed
esse d l s- without prejudice to a future action, the clerk shall make a
missed, clerk
-iiaii make rec- complete record ot the proceedings, upon being paid for mak
ing the same, by the party desiring the record to be made.
Sec. 401. A complete record shall be maile in the case
complete rec-•
ord in case in
.
.
section 380. e:c. mentioned in section
three hundred and eighty, unless waived
sc
by the parties.
Conveyance by Commissioners.
conveyance
by
commissioners

Sec.# 402. Real property
may
be conveyed
bv
master
"
*
J
"
commissioners as hereinafter provided:
First. When, by an order or judgment in an action or pro
ceeding, a party is ordered to convey such property to
another, and he shall neglect or refuse to comply with such
order or judgment.
Second, When specific real property is required to be sold
under an order or judgment of the court.
sheriff may act
Sec. 40.'>. A sheriff may act as master commissioner un
der the second subdivision of the preceding section. Sales
made under the same shall conform in all respects to the law?
regulating sales of land upon execution.
commissionSkc. 404. The deed of a master commissioner shall Con
or's deed shall
contain.
tain the like recital, and shall be executed, acknowledged and
recorded, as the deed of a sheriff of real property sold under
execution.
TITLE XII.
Causes of Actions which Survive, and Abatement of Actions.
Sec. 405. In addition to the causes of action which sur
vive at common law, causes of action for mesne profits, or for
an injury to the person or to real or personal estate, or for
any deceit or fraud, shall also survive, and the action may be
brought, notwithstanding the death of the person entitled or
liable to the same.
Actions which
Sec. 406. No action pending in any court, shall abate by
"' '
the death of either or both parties thereto, except an action for
libel, slander, malicious prosecution for a nuisance, or against
a justice of the peace for misconduct in office, which shall
abate by the death of the defendant.
TITLE XIII.
Revivor. Revivor of Actions.
Son's!01, of ac" Sec. 407. Where there are several plaintiffs or defend-

Actions which
nurvive.
nnts in an action, and one of them dies, or his powers as per
sonal representative cease, if the right of action survive to or
against the remaining parties, the action may proceed, the
death of the party or the cessation of his powers being stated
on the record.
Sec. 408. Where one of several plaintiffs or defendants Where one
.
,
.
.«, party dies,
dies, or bis powers as a personal representative cease, it the court may <i.>1
....
.
termine amou<!
cause of action do not admit of supervisorship, and the court i lie rest.
is of opinion that the merits of the controversy can be
property determined and the principles applicable to the cause
fully settled, it may proceed to try the same as between the
remaining parties, but the judgment shall not prejudice any
who are not parties at the time of trial.
Sec. 409. When one of the parties to an action dies, or Maybere\ive<i
his powers as a personal representative cease before the judg
ment, if the right of action survive in favor of or against his
representatives or successor, the action may be revived and
proceed in their names.
Ske. 410. The revivor shall be, by a conditional order of Revivor by <>rthe court, if made in term, or by ajudge thereof, if in vacation,
that the action be revived, in the names of the representatives
or successor of the party who died, or whose powers ceased,
and proceed in favor of or against them.
Sec 411. The order may be made on motion of the ad- order made on
verse party, or of the representatives or successor of the party
^vho died, or whose powers ceased, suggesting his death or the
cessation of his powers, which, with the names and capacities
of his representatives or successor, shall be stated in the or
der.
Sec. 412. If the order is made by consent of the parties, ir order by conthe action shall forthwith stand revived; and if not made by forthwith reconsent, the order shall be served in the same manner and notice,
returned within the same time as a summons, upon the party
adverse to the one making the motion ; and if sufficient cause
be not shown against the revivor, the action shall stand
revived.
Sec. 413. When the plaintiff shall make an affidavit, thatNotico bypub.
the representatives of the defendant, or any of them in whose Ucatlon'
name the action may be ordered to be revived, are non-resi7
dents of the Territory, or have left the same to avoid the ser
vice of the order, or so conceal themselves that the order can
not be served upon them, or that the names and residence of
the heir or devisees of the person against -whom the action may
be ordered to be revived, or some of them, are unknown to thc
affiant, a notice may be published for six consecutive weeks,
as provided by section sixty-eight, notifying them to appear
on a day therein named, not less than ten days after the pub
lication is complete, and show cause why the action should
not be revived against them ; and if sufficient cause be not
shown to the contrary, the action shall stand revived.
[|mii death of
Sec. 414. Upon the death of a plaintiff in an action, it
' ' mi
may be revived in the names of his representatives, to whom
his right has passed. Where his right has passed to his per
sonal representatives, the revivor shall be in his name ; where
it has passed to his heirs or devisees, who could support the!
action if brought anew, the revivor may be in their names.
rpon dentil of
Sec. 415. Upon the death of a defendant in an action
wherein the right or any part thereof survives, against any
of his personal representatives, the revivor shall be against
them ; or it may, also, be against the heirs or devisees of the
defendant, or both, when the right of action or any part
thereof survives against them.
Sec. 416. Upon the death of a defendant in an action for
the recovery of real property only, or which concerns only
his rights or claims to such property, the action may b»
revived against his heirs or devisees, or both, and an order
therefor may be forthwith made in the manner directed in
the preceding sections of this, title.
foonevear.
Sec. 417. An order to revive an action against the rep
resentatives or successor of a defendant, shall not be made
without the consent of such representatives or successor,
unless in one year from the time it could have been first made.
Sec, 418. An order to revive an action in the names of
the representatives or successor of a plaintiff, may be made
forthwith, but shall not be made without the consent of the
defendant, after the expiration of one year from the time the
order might have been first made ; bnt, where the defendant
shall also have died, or his powers have ceased in the mean time, the order of revivor, on both sides, may be made in the
period limited in the last section.
Sec. 419. When it appears to the court, by affidavit, that Action strickn
from docket.
either party to an action has been dead, or where a party
sues or is sued as a personal representative, that his powers
have ceased for a period so long that the action cannot be
revived in the names of his representatives or successor, with
out the consent of both parties, it shall order the action to
be stricken from the docket.
Sec. 420. At any term of the court succeeding the death
of the plaintiff, while the action remains on the docket, the
defendant having given to the plaintiff's proper representa
tives, in whose names the action might be revived, ten days'
notice of the application therefor, may have an order to
strike the action from the docket, and for costs against the
estate of the plaintiff, unless the action is forthwith revived.
When by the provisions of the preceding sections, an action vT\ai not po-tstands revived, the trial thereof shall not be postponed by punL
reason of the revivor, if the action would have stood for trial
at the term the revivor is complete, had not death or cessa
tion of powers taken place.
Revivor and New Parties in Judgment.
Sec. 421. When a judgment is recovered against one orEevlvo
::-:
more persons, jointly indebted upon a contract, promissory "Sdgmunt! *
note, or other instrument in writing, those who were not
originally summoned may be made parties to the judgment
by action ; Provided, however, an action may be brought
upon any contract, promissory note, or other instrument in
writing against any one or more of the joint makers or joint
obligors to- any such contract, promissory note, or other
instrument in writing, notwithstanding judgment has been or
may hereafter be obtained, in any court in any of the states
of this Union, other than the Territory of Wyoming, against
one or more of said joint makers or joint obligors to any such
contract, promissory note, or other instrument, and said
action shall proceed upon said instrument, in all respects, as
though no judgment had been obtained against any one of the
makers or obligors thereof; Provided, farther, that no. action shall be maintained upon any such obligation against any one
against whom an action has been prosecuted to final judg
ment.
If parties die
Sec. 422. If either or both parties die after judgment,
after judgment.
and before satisfaction thereof, their representatives, real or
personal or both, as the case may require, may be made par
ties to the same in the same manner as is prescribed for
reviving actions before judgment ; and such judgment may
be rendered and execution awarded as might or ought to be
given or awarded against the representatives, veal or personal,
or both, of such deceased party.
Dormant jndgSec. 428. If a judgment become dormant, it may be rement.

vived in the same manner as is prescribed for reviving actions
before judgment; and when the plaintiff to such dormant
judgment, his agent or attorney, shall make an affidavit that
the defendant is a non-resident of the Territory, and that
such judgment remains unsatisfied, in whole or in part, with
a statement of the amount owing thereon, a notice may be
published for six consecutive weeks, as provided by section
sixty-eight, notifying him to appear at a day therein named,
not less than ten days after publication is complete, and show
cause why judgment shall not be revived against him; and if
sufficient cause be not shown to the contrary, the judgment
shall stand revived for the amount which the court shall find
to remain due and unsatisfied upon such judgment; provided
that in all cases wherein service may be made by publication,
personal service of a copy of the order may be made out of
the Territory.
£>EC' 424. Executions shall be deemed processes of the court.
and shall be issued by the clerk and directed to the sheriff of
the county. They may be directed to different counties at the
same time, and may be issued at any time on request of the
debtor until satisfaction of the judgment.
Of three kinds.
Sec. 425. Executions are of three kinds:—
First. Against the property of the judgment debtor.
Second, Against his person.
Third, For the delivery of the possession of real property.
with damages for withholding the same, and costs.
Executions against the Property of the Judgment Debtor
Sec. 426. Land?, tenements, soods and chattels, not Property 11 <I t
exempt, etc.
exempt by law, shall be liable to be taken on execution and
sold as hereinafter provided.
Sec. 427. The lands and tenements of the debtor within Time properly
the county where the judgment is entered, shall be bound for
the satisfaction thereof, from the first day of the term at which
judgment is rendered; but judgment by confession, and
judgments rendered at the same term at which the action is
commenced, shall bind such lands only from the, day on which
tiuch judgments are rendered; All other lands, as well as
goods and chattels of the debtor, shall be bot.nd from the time
they shall be seized in execution.
Sec. 428. If execution shall not be sued out within five when j s. ci m
ment shall be
years from the date of any judgment that now is, or may come dormant
hereafter be rendered in any court of record in this Territory,
or if five years shall have intervened between the date of the
last execution issued on such judgment and the time of sueing
out another writ of execution thereon, such judgment shall
become dormant and shall cease to operate as a lien on the
estate of the judgment debtor.
Sec. 429. The writ of execution on the property of the w r i t eo m.
mands.
judgment debtor, issuing from any court of record in this
Territory, shall command the officer to whom it is directed,
that of the goods and chattels of the debtor he cause to be
made the money specified in the writ, and for want of goods
and chattels he cause the same to be made of the lands and
tenements of the debtor; and the exact amount of the debt,
damages and costs, for which the judgment is entered, shall .
be indorsed on the execution.
Sec. 430. When two or more writs of execution against when two or
i
i •
more writs are
the same debtor shall be sued out, during the term in which delivered at the
judgment was rendered, or within ten daj's thereafter, and
when two or more writs of execution against the same debtor
shall be delivered to the officer on the same day, no prefer
ence shall be given to either of such writs ; but if a sufficient
sum of money be not made to satisfy all executions, the
amount shall be distributed to the several creditors in pro-

Til;

eame time, etc.
 portion to the amount of their respective demands. In all
other cases, the writ of execution first deliverd to the officer
shall be first satisfied. And it shall be the duty of the officer
to indorse on every writ of execution the time when he
received the same ; hut nothing herein contained shall be so
construed as to affect any preferable lien which one or more
of the judgments on which execution issued, may have*on the
lands of the debtor.
officer's duty.
Sec. 431. *The officer to whom the writ of execution is
delivered shall proceed immediately to levy the same upon
the goods and chattels of the debtor ; but if no goods and
chattels can be found, the officer shall indorse on the writ of
execution "no goods," and forthwith levy the writ of execu'
tion upon the lands and tenements of the debtor which may
be liable, to satisfy the judgment.
Trial of ripht Sec. 432. If the officer, by virtue of any writ of execu
tion, issued from any court of record in this Territory, shall
levy the same on any goods or chattels claimed by any person
other than the defendant, it shall be the duty of said officer,
forthwith to give notice in writing, to some justice of the
peace of the county, in which shall be set forth the names of
the plaintiff and defendant, together with the name of the
claimant; and at the same time he shall furnish the said
justice of the peace with a schedule of the property claimed.
And it shall be the duty of the said justice of the peace, im
mediately upon the receipt of such notice and schedule, to
make an entry of the same upon his docket, and issue a writ
of summons, directed to the sheriff or any constable of the
county, commanding him to summon five disinterested men.
having the qualifications of electors, who shall be named in
said summons, to appear before him, the said justice, at the
time and place therein mentioned, which time shall not be
more than three days after the date of said writ, to try and
determine the right of the claimant to the property in con
troversy. And it shall be the duty of the claimant to give
two days' notice, in writing, to the plaintiff or other party for
whose benefit such execution was issued and levied as afore
said, his agent or attorney, if within the county, of the time
and place of such trial ; and he shall, moreover, prove, to the satisfaction of said justice, that such notice was given, or that
the same could not be given by reason of the absence of the
party, his agent, or attorney.
Sec. 433. The jury, summoned as aforesaid, shall beD"'-v ofJnrvsworn to try and determine the right of the claimant to the
property in controversy, and a true verdict give according to
the evidence. If the jury shall find the right to said goods
and chattels, or any part thereof, to be in the clajmant, they
shall also find the value thereof, and fhe justice shall render
judgment upon the finding of the jury for the claimant, that
he recover his costs against the plaintiff in execution, or other
party to the same, for whose benefit the execution issued, and
also that he have restitution of such goods and chattels, or
any part thereof, according to the finding of the jury; but if
the right to the said goods and chattels, and every part
thereof, shall not be in the claimant according to the finding
of said jury, then the said justice shall render judgment on said
finding, in favor of the plaintiff in execution, or other party,
for whose benefit the execution issued, and against said claim
ant for costs, aird award execution thereon. If the jury shall
fail to agree, and be discharged, costs shall be taxed, to abide
the final event of the proceeding before said justice, and an
other jury shall be summoned in like manner as before. Said
justice of the peace, in the taxation of costs accruing by
reason of such claim and trial, shall allow each juror, sum
moned and sworn, the sum of one dollar ; and for the sheriff,
constable or other officer, and witnesses, and for himself, he
shall tax such fees as are allowed by law to each respectively,
for like services rendered in other cases; such judgment for
the claimant (ins less an undertaking be executed, as provided
in the next section,) shall be a justification of the officer in
returning "no goods" to the writ of execution, by virtue of
which the levy has been made, as to such parts of the goods
and chattels as were found to belong to such claimant.
Sec. 434. If the jury shall find the property, or any part Finding xfjurv
thereof to be in the claimant, and the plaintiff in execution
shall, at any time within three days after such trial, tender to
the sheriff or other officer having such property in execution,
an undertaking with good and sufficient sureties, payable to such claimant, in double the amount of the value of such
property as assessed by the jury, to the effect that they will
pay all damages sustained by reason of the detention or sale
of such property, then the sheriff or other officer shall deliver
said undertaking to claimant, and proceed to sell such prop
erty, as if no such trial of the right of property had taken place.
and shall not be liable to the claimant therefor.
takeVn' underSke. 435.. In all cases where a sheriff, coroner, or other
officer, shall, by virtue of an execution, levy upon any goods
and chattels which shall remain upon his hands unsold for
want of bidders, for want of time to advertise and sell, or any
other reasonable cause, the officer may, for his own security,
take of the defendant an undertaking, with security in such
sum as he may deem sufficient; to the effect that the said
property shall be delivered to the officer holding an execution
for the sale of the same, at the time and place appointed by
said officer, either by notice 'given in writing to said defendant
in execution, or by advertisement, published in a newspaper
printed in the county, naming therein the day and place of
sale. If the defendant shall fail to deliver the goods and
chattels, at the time and place mentioned in the notice to him
given, or to pay to the officer holding the execution, the full
value of said goods and chattels, or the amount of said debt
and costs, the undertaking, given as aforesaid, shall be con
sidered as broken, and may be proceeded on as in other
cases.
shall aivc no- Sec. 430. The officer who levies upon goods and chattels,
by virtue of an execution issued by a court of record, before
he proceeds to sell the same, shall cause public notice to be
given of the time and place of sale, for at least ten days
before the day of sale. The notice shall be given by adver
tisement, published in some newspaper printed in the county,
or in case no newspaper be printed therein, by putting up
advertisements in five public places in the county ; two
advertisements shall be put up in the precinct where the sale
is to be held. And where goods and chattels levied upon can
not be sold for want of bidders, the officer making such return
shall annex to the execution a true and perfect inventory of
such goods and chattels ; and the plaintiff in such execution may thereupon sue out another writ of execution, directing
the sale of the property levied upon as aforesaid ; but such
goods and chattels shall not be sold unless the time and place
of sale be advertised, as hereinbefore provided.
Sec. 437. When any writ shall issue, directing the sale May levy <>>>
of property previously taken in execution, the officer issuing
said writ shall, at the request of the person entitled to the
benefit thereof, his agent or attorney, add thereto a command
to the officer to whom such writ shall be directed, that if the
property remaining in his hands, not sold, shall, in his
opinion, be insufficient to satisfy the judgment, he shall levy
the same upon the lands and tenements, goods and chattels,
or either, as the law shall permit, being the property of the
judgment debtor, sufficient to satisfy the debt.
Sec. 438. If execution be levied upon the lands and tene- when levied on lands, officer
ments, the officer levying such execution shall call an inquest shall can an
of three disinterested householders, who shall be resident
within the county where the lands taken in execution are sit
uate, and administer to them an oath, impartially to appraise
the property so levied on, upon actual view ; and such house
holders shall forthwith return to said officer, under their hands,
an estimate of the real value of said property.
Sec. 439. The officer receiving such return shall forth- shaii advertise
with deposit a copy thereof in the office of the clerk of the
court from which the writ issued, and shall immediately
advertise and sell said real estate, agreeably to the provisions
of this title.
Sec. 440. If, upon such return us aforesaid, it appear by shall not seii
the inquisition, that one-half of the appraised value of said one-half, ete.'
lands and tenements, so levied upon, is sufficient to satisfy
the execution with costs, the judgment on which such execu
tion issued shall not operate as a lien on the residue of the
debtor's estate, to the prejudice of any other judgment credi
tor ; but no such property shall be sold for less than one-half
of the value returned in the inquest; and nothing in this sec
tion contained shall, in any wise, extend to affect the sale of
lands by the Territory, but all lands, the property of indi
viduals indebted to the Territory for any debt or taxes, or in
any other manner, shall be sold, without valuation, for the discharge of such debt or taxes, agreeably to the laws in such
cases made and provided.
5,i lci without Sec. 441. If the property of any clerk, sheriff, coroner,
raluatioii.
justice or the peace, constable, or any collector ot lerntory,
county, town, or township tax, shall be levied on, for, or on
account of any moneys that now are or may hereafter be by
them collected or received in their official capacity, the
property so levied on shall be sold without valuation.
Thirty days noSec. 442. Lands and tenements, taken in execution, shall
not be sold until the officer cause public notice of the time and
place of sale to be given, at least thirty days before the day of
sale, by advertisement in some newspaper printed in the county,
or, in case no newspaper be printed in county, in some news
paper in general circulation therein, and by putting up an adver
tisement on the court house door, and in five other places in the
county, two of which shall be in the precinct where such lands
and tenements lie. All sales made without such advertisement
shall be set aside, on motion, by the court to which the execution
is returnable.
conn
Khnii
r.pSec. 44o. If the court, ui>on
the return of any writ of exeprovc mile and 
order deed.
cution for the satisfaction of which any lands and tenements
have been sold, shall, after having carefully examined the pro
ceedings of the officer, be satisfied that the sale has, in all
respects, been made in conformity to the provisions of this
title, the court shall direct the clerk to make an entry on the
journal, that the court is satisfied of the legality of such stile,
and an order that the officer make to the purchaser a deed of
such lands and tenements, and the officer, on making such
sale, may retain the purchase money in his hands until the
court shall have examined his proceedings as aforesaid, when
he shall pay the same to the person entitled theieto, agreeably
to the order of the court.
Tin- dwd shaii
Sec. 444. The sheriff or other officer, who, upon such writ
be guttle i <Ml t
-1-,
•
<->idfiict>. etc. or writs of execution, shall sell the said lands and tenements or
any part thereof, shall make to the purchaser as good and suffi
cient deed of conveyance of the lands and tenements sold, as
the person or persons against whom such writs of execution were
issued could have made of the same, at or any time after they
became liable to the judgment. The deed shall be sufficient evidence of the legality of such sale, and the proceedings
therein, until the contrary be proved, and shall vest in the pur
chaser as good and as perfect an estate in the premises therein
mentioned, as was vested in the party at, or after, the time
when such lands and tenements became liable to the satisfac
tion of the judgment; and such deed of conveyance to be made
by the sheriff or other officer, shall recite the execution or
executions, or the substance thereof, and the names of the
parties, the amount and date of rendition of each judgment,
by virtue whereof the said lands and tenements were sold as
aforesaid, and shall be executed, acknowledged and recorded
as is or may be provided by law, to perfect the conveyance of
real estate in other cases.
Sec. 445. The officer who levies upon goods and chattels, party *han ndor lands and tenements, or who is charged with the duty of notice.
selling the same by virtue of any writ or execution, may refuse
to publish a notice of the sale thereof, by advertisement in a
newspaper, until the party for whose benefit such execution
issued, his agent or attorney, shall advance to such office}' so
much money as will be sufficient to discharge the fees of the
printei for publishing such notice.
Sec. 446. Before any officer shall be excused from giving officer shnn <iethe notification mentioned in the last section, he shall demand
of the party for whose benefit the execution was issued, his
agent or attorney, (provided either of them reside in the
county,) the fees in said section specified.
Sec. 447. All s;iles of land and tenements under execu- gaies shall be
tion, unless otherwise ordered by the court shall be held at the "
court house, if there be one in the county in which such lands
and tenements are situated, and if there be no court house,
then at the door of the house in which the district court was
last held. No sheriff or other officer making the sale of
property, either personal or real, or any appraiser of such
property, shall, either directly or indirectly, purchase the same ;
and every purchase so made shall be considered fraudulent
and void.
Sec. 448. If lands and tenements levied on as aforesaid other execu
tions mav nare not sold upon one execution, other executions may be issued.
issued to sell the lands so levied upon.
Sec. 449. In all oases where two or more executions
to satisfy ciif- shall be put into the hands of anv sheriff or other officer, and

must be made

erent execu it shall bo necessary to levy on real estate to satisfy the same,
and either of the judgment creditors in whose favor one or
more of said executions is issued, shall require the sheriff or
other officer to make a separate levy to satisfy his executions,
it shall be the duty of the sheriff or other officer to levy said
executions, or so many thereof as may be required, on sepa
rate parcels of real property of the judgment debtor or debt
ors, giving to the officer making the levy on behalf of the
creditor, whose execution may, by the provisions of this title,
be entitled to a preference, the choice of such real property
of the judgment debtor or debtors, as will be sufficient, at
one-half the appraised value, to satisfy the same. And in
all cases where two or more executions, which are entitled to
no preference over each other, are put into the hands of the
same officer, it shall be the duty of the officer, when required,
to levy the same on separate parcels of the real property of
the judgment debtor or debtors, when, in the opinion of the
appraisers, the same may be divided, without material injury,
and if the real property of said debtors will not bo sufficient,
at one-half of its appraised value, to satisfy all the. executions,
chargeable thereon, such part of the same shall be levied on to
satisfy each execution as will be at the same proportion in
value to the whole, as the amount of all the executions chargable thereon, as near as may be, according to the appraised
value of each separate parcel of said real property,
succeeding
Sec. 450. If the term of service of the sheriff or other
m'a'ke dee I officer, who has made, or shall hereafter make sale of any
"hecom-t.6
lands and tenements, shall expire, or if the sheriff or other
officer be absent, or be rendered unable, by death or otherwise,
to make a deed of conveyance of the same, any succeeding
sheriff or other officer, on receiving a certificate from the court
from wich the execution issued, for the sale of said lands and
tenements, signed by the clerk, by order of said court, set
ting forth that sufficient proof has been made to the court
that such sale was fairly and legally made, and, on tender of
the purchase money, or if the same or any part thereof be
paid, then, on proof of such payment and the tender of the balance, if any, may execute to said purchaser or purchasers,
or his or their legal representatives, a deed of conveyance of
such lands and tenements so sold. Such deed shall be as
good and valid in law, and have the same effect, as if the
sheriff or other officer, who made the sale, had executed the
same.
Sec. 451. If on any sale made as aforesaid, there shall Balance of
money must be
be, in the hands oi the sherin or other omcer, more nionevpnia '- <t'..
^ i'endunt.
than is suilicient to satisfy the writ or writs of execution,
with interest and costs, the sheriff or other officer shall, on
demand pay the balance to the defendant in execution, or his
legal represenatives.
Sec. 452. If any judgment or judgments, in- satisfaction if judgment 
reversed, restloi which any lands or tenements are sold, shall at any timetution must he
thereafter, be reversed, such reversal shall not defeat or affect
the title of the purchaser or purchasers; but in such case,
restitution shall be made by the judgment creditor, of the
moneys for which such lands or tenements were sold, with the
lawful interest from the day of sale.
Sec. 453. No judgment heretofore rendered, or which nen npou the
hereafter may be rendered, on which execution shall not have debtor.
been taken out and levied, before the expiration of one year
next after its rendition, shall operate as a lien upon the estate
of any debtor, to the prejudice of any other bona fide judgment
creditor. But in all cases where judgment has been or may be
rendered in the supreme court, and a special mandate awarded
to the district court to carry the same into execution, the lien
of the judgment creditor shall continue for one year after the
first day of the next term of the district court to which such
mandate may be directed. Nothing in this section contained
shall be construed to defeat the lien of any judgment creditor
who shall fail to take out execution and cause a levy to be made
as herein provided, where such failure shall be occasioned by
appeal, proceedings in error, injunction, or by a vacancy in
the office of sheriff and coroner, or the inability of such officer,
until one year after such disability shall be removed. In all
cases where real estate has been or may hereafter be taken on
execution and appraised, and twice advertised and offered for
sale, and shall remain unsold for want of bidders, it shall be the duty of the court from which such execution issued, on
motion of the plaintiff, to set aside such appraisement, and
order a new one to be made, or to set aside such levy and
appraisement, and award a new execution to issue, as the case
may require.
sheriff -haii reSec. 454. The sheriff or other officer, to whom anv writ
of execution shall be directed, shall return such writ to the
court to which the same is returnable, within sixty days from
the date thereof.
Which i>vinciSec. 455. In all case* where judgment is rendered in anv
pai and which

-nretv the court ot record within this lerritorv, upon anv other nistruelcrk shall cer
"
.
lity.
ment of writing, in winch two or more persons are jointly
and severally hound, and it shall be made to appear to the
court by parol or other testimony, that one or more of said
persons so bound, signed the same as surety or bail for his or
their co-defendant, it shall he the duty of the clerk of saidcourt, in recording the judgment thereon, to certify which of
the defendants is principal debtor, and which are sureties or
bail. And the clerk of the court aforesaid shall issue execu
tion on such judgment, commanding the sheriff or other officer
to cause the money to be made of the goods and chattels.
lands and tenements, of the principal debtor, but for want of
sufficient property of the principal debtor to make the same,
that he cause the same to be made of the goods and chattels,
lands and tenements, of the surety or bail. In all cases the
property, both personal and real, of the principal debtor,
within the jurisdiction of the court, shall be exhausted before
any property of the surety or bail shall be taken into execu
tion,
if -heriff or
Sec. 456. If any sheriff or other officer shall refuse or
"hull neglect. neglect to execute any writ of execution to. him directed.
which has come to his hands ; or shall neglect or refuse to sell
any goods and chattels, lands and tenements ; or shall neglect
to call an inquest, and return a copy thereof forthwith to the
clerk's office ; or shall neglect to return any writ of execution
to the proper court, on or before the return day thereof; or
shall neglect to return a just and perfect inventory of all and
singular, the goods and chattels by him taken in execution,
unless the said sheriff or other officer, shall return that he has levied and made the amount of the debt, damages and
costs ; or shall refuse or neglect on demand, to pay over to
the plaintiff, his agent or attorney of record, all moneys by
him collected or received, for the use of said party, at any
time after collecting or receiving the same, except as provided
in section four hundred and forty-three ; or shall neglect or
refuse, on demand made by the defendant, his agent or
attorney of record, to pay over all moneys by him received
for anv sale made, beyond what is sufficient to satisfy the
writ or writs of execution, with interest and legal costs, such
sheriff or other officer shall, on motion in court, and two
days' notice thereof, in writing, be amerced in the amount of
said debt, damages and costs, with twenty per centum thereon,
to and for the use of said plaintiff or defendant, as the case
may be.
Sec. 457. If any clerk of a court shall neglect or refuse, if clerk sii;iii
on demand made by the person entitled thereto, his agent or over money. '
attorney of record, to pay over all money by him received in
their official capacity, for the use of such person, every such
clerk may be amerced; and the proceedings against him and
sureties shall be the same as provided for in the foregoing
section against sheriffs and their sureties.
Sec. 458. When the cause of amercement is for refusing Amercemeiii.
to pay over money collected as aforesaid, the said sheriff or
other officer shall not be amerced in a greater sum than the
amount so withheld, with twenty per centum thereon.
Sec. 459. When execution shall be issued in any county Execution <u
in this Territory, and directed to a sheriff or coroner of other county.
another county, it shall be lawful for such sheriff or coroner
having the execution, after having discharged all the duties
required of him by law, to inclose such execution, by mail, to
the clerk of the court who issued the same. On proof being
made by such sheriff or coroner, that the execution was mailed
soon enough to have reached the office where it was issued,
within the time prescribed by law, the sheriff or coroner shall
not be liable for any amercement or penalty, if it do not reach
the office in time.
Sec. 460. No sheriff shall forward by mail, any monev
made on such execution, unless he shall be specially instructed to do it by the plaintiff, his agent or attorney of record. In
all cases of a motion to amerce, a sheriff or other officer of any
county, other than the one from which the execution issued,
notice in writing shall be given to such officer, as hereinbefore
required, by leaving it with him, or at his office, at least fifteen
days before the first day of the term at which such motion
shall be made, or by transmitting the notice by mail, at least
sixty days prior to the first day of the term at which such
motion shall be made. All amercements so procured, shall be
entered on the record of the court, and shall have the same
force and effect as a judgment.
Sec. 461. Each and every surety of any sheriff or other
officer, may be made a party to the judgment rendered as afore
said, against the sheriff or other officer, by action, to bo com*
menced and prosecuted as in other cases. But the goods and
chattels, lands and tenements, of any such surety shall not be
liable to be taken on execution, when sufficient troods and
chattels, lands and tenements of the sheriff or other officer
against whom the execution may be issued, can be found to
satisfy the same. Nothing herein contained shall prevent
either party from proceeding against such sheriff or other
officer by attachment, at his election.
Sec. 4t52. In cases where a sheriff or other officer may
be amerced, and shall not have collected the amount of the
original judgment, he shall be permitted to sue out an execu
tion, and collect the amount of said judgment in the name of
the original plaintiff, for his own use.
Proceedings in aid of Execution.

Proceeding in
Sec. 463. When a judgment debtor has no real or per"ion."
" sonal property, subject to levy on execution, sufficient to sat
isfy the judgment, any equitable interest which he may have
in real estate as mortgagor, mortgagee, or otherwise, or any
interest which he may have in any banking, turnpike, bridge.
or joint stock company, or any interest which he may have
in money, contracts, claims, or choses in action, due or to
become due to him, or in any judgment or decree, or any
money, goods or effects which he may have in the possession
of any person, body politic or corporate, shall be subject to the payment of such judgment by action, or as this article
prescribes.
Sko. 464. When an execution against the property of a
judgment debtor, or one of several debtors in the same
judgment, is issued to the sheriff of the county where he
resides, or, if he do not reside in the Territory, to the sheriff
of the county where the judgment was rendered, or a transscript of a justice's judgment has been filed, is returned
unsatisfied in whole or in part, the judgment creditor is
entitled to an order from a probate judge or judge of the dis
trict court, of the county to which the execution was issued,
requiring such debtor to appear and answer concerning his
property, before such judge, or a referee appointed by such
judge, at a time and place specified in such order, within the
county to which the execution was issued.
Sec. 46;">, After the issuing of an execution against prop- court may nerty, and upon proof by the affidavit of the judgment creditor or ment debtor u>
otherwise, to the satisfaction of a probate judge ora judge of the
district court of the county in which the order may be
served, that the judgment debtor has property which he
?mjustly refuses to apply towards the satisfaction of the judg
ment, such court or judge may, by order, require the judgment
debtor to appear at a time and place in said county, to answer
concerning the same ; and such proceedings may thereupon
be had, for the application of the property of the judgment
debtor, towards the satisfaction of the judgment, as are pre
scribed in this article.
Sec. 466. Instead of the order requiring attendance of c 0 n ,. , mav
the judgment debtor, as provided in the last two sections, the { oa" p r™ v'™1!
judge may, upon proof to his satisfaction, by affidavit of the fr'on? '" Ur,>'iKir
party or otherwise, that there is danger of the debtor leaving "*'
the Territory or concealing himself, to avoid the examination
herein mentioned, issue a warrant requiring the sheriff to
arrest him and bring him before such judge within the county
in which the debtor may be arrested. Such a warrant can
be issued only by a judge of probate, or judge of the district
court of the county in which such debtor resides or may be
arrested. Upon being brought before the judge, he shall be
examined on oath, and other witnesses may be examined on cither side ; and if, on such examination, it appears that there
is danger of the debtor leaving the Territory, and that he has
property which he unjustly refuses to apply to such judg
ment, he may be ordered to enter an undertaking in such
sum as the judge may prescribe, with one or more sureties,
that he will, from time to time, attend for examination before
the judge or referee, as shall be directed. In default of enter
ing into such an undertaking, he may be committed to the
jail of the county, by warrant of the judge, as for a con
tempt.
1'crsiMi comSec. 467. No person shall, on examination, pursuant to
[..-'i. -i tn an.
tins article, be excused troni answering any question r.n the
ground that his examination will tend to convict him of fraud:
but his answer shall not be used as evidence against him in a
prosecution for such fraud.
Sec. 468. After the issuing of execution against property,
any person indebted to the judgment debtor may pay to the
sheriff the amount of his debt, or so much thereof as may be
necessary to satisfy the execution, and the sheviff's receipt
shall be a sufficient discharge for the amount so paid, or
directed to be credited by the judgment creditor on the execu
tion,
t <xirt may reSec. 469. After the issuing or return of an execution
m"in"> eCrsraof against property of a judgment debtor, or any one of several
Vi'';!"'iV\tc.'
debtors in the same judgment, and upon proof by affidavit or
otherwise, to the satisfaction of the judge, that any person or
corporation has property of such judgment debtor, or is
indebted to him, the judge may, by an order, require such
person or corporation, or any officer or member thereof, to
appear at a specified time and place within the county in
which such person or corporation may be served with the order
to answer, and answer concerning the same. The judge may,
also, in his discretion, require notice of such proceeding to be
given to any party in the action, in such manner as may seem
to him proper.
Sec. 470. Witnesses may be required, upon the order
of the judge, or by a subpoena issued by the clerk of the
district court, to appear and testify upon any proceedings
under this article* in the same manner as upon tiie trial of an
issue.
Sec. 471. The party or witness may be required to attend
before the judge, or before a referee appointed by the court or
judge. If before a referee, the examination must be taken
by the referee, and certified by the judge. All examinations
and answers before a judge or a referee, under this article,
must bo on oath; but when a corporation answers, the answer
must be oh the oath of an agent or officer thereof.
Sec. 472. The judge may order the property of the judg- judge ma>
ment debtor, not exempt by law, in the hands either of perfy of Pth'<himself or any other person or corporation, or due to the J
judgment debtor, to be applied towards the satisfaction of
the judgment ; but the earnings of the debtor for his personal
services, at any time within three months next preceding the
order, cannot be so applied when it is made to appear by the
debtor's affidavit or otherwise, that such earnings are neces
sary for the use of a family supported wholly or partly by his
labor.
Skc. 473. The judge may also, by order, appoint theAlipoiu, ,,..
sheriff of the proper county, or other suitable person, act'm''
receiver of the property of the judgment debtor, in the same
manner and with like authority as if the appointment was
made by the court. The judge may also, by order, forbid a
transfer or other disposition of the property of the judgment
debtor, not exempt by law, and any interference therewith.
' Sec. 474. If it shall appear that the judgment debtor has ReC<.jver mav
any equitable interest in real estate in the county in which JeaiTsun'!"'"
proceedings are had, as mortgagor or mortgagee, or otherwise,
and the interest of said debtor can be ascertained, as between
himself and the person or persons holding the legal estate, or
the person or persons having a lien on or interest in the same,
without controversy as to the interest of such person or
persons holding such legal estate or interest therein, or lien
<>.i the same, the receiver may be ordered to sell and convey
such real estate, or the debtor's interest therein. Such sale
shall be conducted in all respects in the same manner as is
provided by this code for the sale of real estate upon execu
tion, and the proceedings of sale shall, before the execution
of the deed, be approved by the court in which the judgment was rendered, or the transcript has been filed as aforesaid, a*
in cases of sale upon execution.
Sec. 475. If the sheriff shall be appointed receiver, he
and his sureties shall be liable, on his official bond, for the
faithful discharge of his duties as receiver ; if any other
person shall be appointed receiver, he shall give a written
undertaking in such sum as shall be prescribed by the judge,
with one or more sureties, to the effect that . he will faithfully
discharge the duties of receiver, and he shall also take an
oath to the same effect before acting as such receiver. The
undertaking mentioned in this section, shall be to the Terri
tory of Wyoming, and actions may be prosecuted for a breach
thereof, by any person interested, in the same manner as upon
a sheriff's official bond.
Sec. 476. The judge or referee, acting under the pro
visions of this article, shall have power to continue his
proceedings, from time to time, irtitil they shall be completed.
The judge may in his discretion, order a reference to ;*
referee, agreed upon or appointed by him, to report tinevidence of the facts.
coniempt.
Sec. 477. If any person, party or witness, disobey an
order or the judge or referee, duly served, such person, party
or witness, may be punished by the judge as for a contempt.
aii orders in
Sec. 478. The orders to judgment debtors and witnesses,
provided for in this title, shall be in writing and signed by
the judge making the same, and shall be served as a summons
in other cases. The judge shall reduce all his orders to
writing, which, together .with a minute of his proceedings,
signed by himself, shall be filed with the clerk of the court
of the county in which the judgment is rendered, or the
transcript of the justice filed, and the clerk shall enter on his
execution docket the time of filing the same.
Judge shall
Sec. 470
The judge shall allow to clerks, sheriffs, refaliow cominm.
Bation,
erees, receivers and witnesses, such compensation as is allowed
for like services in other cases, to be taxed as costs in tincase, and shall enforce by order the collection thereof from
such party or parties as ought to pay the same.
against person!

Sec. 480.

Executions Against the Person.
An execution against the person of the judgment debtor shall require the officer to arrest such debtor, and
commit him to the jail of the county until he pay the judgment
or be discharged according to law.
Sec. 481. An execution against the person of the debtor
may be issued upon any judgment for the payment of money :
First, When the judgment debtor has removed or begun to
remove any of his property out of the jurisdiction of the court,
with intent to prevent the collection of the money due on the.
judgment.
Second, ,When he has property, rights in action, evidences
of debt or some interest or stock in some corporation or
company which he fraudulently conceals with the like intent.
Third, When he has assigned or disposed of all or any
part of his property or rights in action, or has converted the
same into money with intent to defraud his creditors, or with
the intent to prevent such property from being taken in
execution.
Fourth, When he fraudulently contracted the debt or
incurred the obligation upon which the judgment was ren
dered.
Fifth, When he was arrested on an order before judgment
said has not been discharged as an insolvent debtor, or the
order has not been set aside as improperly made.
Sec. 482. An execution against the person of the debtor,
except as prescribed in section four hundred and eighty, can
be issued only when the same is allowed by the supreme
court, the district court, or any judge of either, upon being
satisfied by the affidavit of the judgment creditor or his
•ittorney, and such evidence as may be presented, of the
existence of one or more of the particulars mentioned in the
preceding section.
Sec. 48^]. A justice of the peace may issue an execution justiC<. „r the
ngainst the person of a judgment debtor, upon being satisfied \e%ae. e
of the existence of one or more of the same particulars, by
the like affidavit and evidence.
Sec. 484. In all cases in which the judgment debtor was
arrested before judgment, and has not been released from
imprisonment by an application for relief, as an insolvent
debtor, and where the order for such arrest has not been adjudged improper, an execution against the person of such
judgment debtor may issue of course.
May be di-Skc. 485. Any person taken in execution as aforesaid,
shall be discharged by delivering or setting off to the officers
serving the same, if issued from a court of record, real or
personal property, sufficient to satisfy the judgment and costs,
for which the writ is issued.
Death docs not Sec. 486. The death of a person under arrest in an
satisfy judgment.
action does not satisi}' the judgment ; but an execution may
issue thereon as if no arrest had been made.
Sec. 487. If a person imprisoned under an order of arrest,
made before judgment, is not charged in execution, within ten
days after judgment, he shall be discharged from such impris
onment.
Sec. 488. In cases of commitment under this title, or
upon arrest before or after judgment in civil cases, the person
imprisoned, in case of his inability to perform the act or
endure the imprisonment, may be discharged from imprison
ment by the court or judge committing him, or the court or
judge thereof, in which the judgment was or might be rend
ered, on such terms as may be just.
Executions for the Delivery of Real and Personal Property.
Executions for Sec. 489. If the execution be for the delivery of the
,
real and per- possession ot real property, it shall require the officer to
snnal property.
,
deliver the same, particularly describing the property, to
the party entitled thereto, and may, at the same time, require
the officer to satisfy any costs or damages, recovered in the
same judgment, out of the goods and chattels of the party
against whom it was rendered, and for the want of such good-*
and chattels, then out of the lands and tenements, and in this
respect it shall be deemed an execution against the property.

the delivery of

Sec. 490. When the judgment is not for the recovery of
money or real property, the same may be enforced by attach
ment, by the court rendering judgment, upon motion made,
or by a rule of the court, upon the defendant; but in either
case, notice of the motion or service of a copy of the rule
shall be made on the defendant, a reasonable time before the
order of attachment is made.
Sec. 491. In all cases in which a judgment shall he Ma> nie tnmrendered by a justice of the peace, the party in whose favor m en t before
the judgment was rendered, may file a transcript of the judg
ment in the office of the clerk of the district court of the
county in which the judgment was rendered, and, thereupon,
the clerk shall, on the day on which the same shall be filed,
enter the ease upon the execution docket, together with the
amount of the judgment and time of filing the transcript.
Sec. 492. Such judgment, if the transcript shall be filed rhe transcript
in term time, shall have a lien on the real estate of the Hen, etc.
judgment debtor from the day of filing ; if filed in vacation,
as against the debtor, it shall have a lien from the day of
filing, but as against other transcripts filed in vacation, and
judgments rendered at the next term of the district court, it
shall have a lien only from the first day of the next term
of said court, and any judgment of which a transcript has
been filed as aforesaid, whatever may be the amount thereof,
which shall have heretofore or which may hereafter become
dormant by reason of the death of either of the parties
thereto, or from any other cause, may be revived by the
district court of the county in which the transcript has been
or may be filed, in like manner as dormant judgments
rendered by • such court may be revived, and the revivor
thereof shall have the same force and effect as the revivor of
a judgment rendered by the district court.
Sec. 493. Execution may be issued thereon, to the sheriff, Execution may
by the clerk of the court, in the same manner as if the Script.°™
judgment had been taken in court, and the sheriff shall
execute and return the same as other executions, and in case
of sale of real estate, his proceedings shall be examined and
approved by the court as in other cases.
Sec. 494. The justice of the peace shall certify on the
transcript the amount, if any, paid on such judgment. The
costs of the transcript, and filing of the same, and the entry
of the case on the execution docket, shall be paid by the
party filing the same, and not taxed to the other party.
Sec. 495. The defendant, in an action for the recovery
oi money only, may, at any time before the trial, serve upon
the plaintiff or his attorney, an offer in writing, to allow
judgment to be taken against him for the sum specified
therein. If the plaintiff accept the offer and give notice
thereof to the defendant or his attorney, within five days after
the offer was served, the offer and an affidavit that the notice
of acceptance was delivered in the time limited, may be filed
by the plaintiff, or the defendant may file the acceptance with
a copy of the offer, verified by affidavit ,- and, in either case,
the offer and acceptance shall be noted in the journal, and
judgment shall be rendered accordingly. If the notice of
acceptance be not given in the period limited, the offer shall
be deemed withdrawn, and shall nut be given in evidence, or
mentioned on the trial. If the plaintiff fails to obtain judg
ment for more than was offered by the defendant, he shall
pay the defendant's costs from the time of the offer. The
making of an offer pursuant to the provisions contained in
this section, shall not be a cause for a continuance of an action
or a postponement of the trial.
Submitting a Controversy.
r'Mctics may
Sec. 496. Parties to a question, which might be the
vcrsy.
subject ot a civil action, may, without action, agree upon a
case containing the facts upon which the controversy depends,
and present a submission of the same to any court, which
would have jurisdiction if an action had been brought. But
it must appear by affidavit, that the controversy is real, and
the proceedings in good faith to determine the rights of the
parties. The court shall thereupon hear and determine the
case, and render judgment as if an action were pending.
Sec. 497. The case, the submission and the judgment shall
constitute the record.
Sec. 498. The judgment shall be with costs, may be
enforced, and shall be subject to reversal, in the same manner
as if it had been rendered in an action, unless otherwise
provided in the submission.
submit conlro-
Sec. 499. After an action for the recovery of money is offar to confem
brought, tho defendant may offer in court to confess judgment
for part of the amount claimed, or part of the causes involved
in the action. Whereupon, if the plaintiff, being present,
refuse to accept such confession of judgment in full of his
demands against the defendant in the action, or, having had
such notice that the offer would be made, of its amount, and
of the time of making it, as the court shall deem reasonable,
fail to attend, and on the trial do not recover more than was
so offered to be confessed, such plaintiff shall pay all the co:sts
of the defendant incurred after the offer.
The offer shall not
be deemed to be an admission of the cause of action, or the
amount to which the plaintiff' in entitled, nor be given in evi
dence upon the trial.
Before an action for the recovery of money is brought
against any person, he may go into the court of the county of
his residence, or of that in which the person having the cause
of action resides, which would have jurisdiction of the action,
and offer to confess judgment, in favor of such person for a
specified sum, on such cause of action. Whereupon, if such
person, having had such notice that the offer would be made,
of its amount, and of the time and place of making it, as the
court shall deem reasonable, do not attend to accept the con
fession, or attending, refuse to accept it, and should afterwards
commence an action upon such cause, and not recover more
than the amount so offered to be confessed, he shall pay all
the costs of the action, and on the trial thereof, the offer shall
not be deemed to be an admission of the cause of action, or
amount to which the plaintiff is entitled, nor to be given in evi
dence.
Proceedings by Sureties.
Sec. 500. A surety may maintain an action against his sarcMr*.
principal, to compel him to discharge the debt or liability, for
which the surety is bound, after the same has become due.
Sec. 501. A surety may maintain an .action against his
principal, to obtain indemnity against the debt or liability for
which he is bound, before it is due, whenever any of the grounds
exist, upon which, by the provisions of this code, an order surety may may be made for arrest and bail, or for an attachment.
have action-'
against prin- Sec. 502. In such action, the surety may obtain any oi
efpal.
the provisional remedies mentioned in this code upon the
ground and in the manner therein described.
Sec 503. A motion is an application for an order,
addressed to the court, or a judge in vacation, by any party
to a suit or proceeding, or one interested therein.
Sec. 504. Several objects may be included in the same
motion, if they all grow out of, or are connected with the
action or proceeding in which it is made.
hiwrnii"'a' be
^EC- 505. Where notice of a motion is required, it must
be in writing, and shall state the names of the parties to the
action or proceeding in which it is made, the name of the
court or judge before whom it is to be made, the place where,
and the day on which it will be heard, the nature and terms
of the order or orders to be applied for, and if affidavits are
to be used on the hearing, the notice shall state that fact, and
it shall be served a reasonable time before the hearing,
iiow served.
Sec. 506. Notices of motions, mentioned in this title,
may be served by a sheriff, coroner or constable, or by any
disinterested person, and the return of any such officer, or
affidavit of any such person, shall be proof of service; the
service shall be on the party, or his attorney of record if the
said party or his attorney be resident within the county in
which the motion is made, and in case there is more than one
party adverse to such motion, service shall be made upon each
party or his attorney.
Sec. 507. The service of a notice shall be made as is
required by law for the service of a summons, and when
served by an officer, he shall be entitled to like fees.
Sec. 508. Motions to strike pleadings and papers from
the files may be made with or without notice, as the court or
judge shall direct.
Sec. 509. Every direction of a judge or court made, or
entered in writing, and not included in a judgment is an
order.
Sec. 510. Orders made out of court shall be forthwith entered by the clerk in the journal of the court, in the same
manner as orders made in term.
Error in Civil Cases.
Sec. 511. A judgment rendered, or final order made, by Error in civil
a probate court, justice of the peace or any other tribunal,
board or officer exercising judicial functions, and inferior in
jurisdiction to the district court, may be reversed, vacated or
modified by the district court.
Sec. 512. An order affecting a substantial right in an
action, when such order in effect determines the action and
prevents a judgment, and an order affecting a substantial right
made in a special proceeding, or upon a summary application
or an action after judgment, is a final order which may be
vacated, modified or reversed, as provided in this title. A
judgment rendered or final order made by the district court or
a judge thereof, may be reversed, vacated or modified by the
supreme court.
Sec. 513. A judgment rendered or final order made by
any court, board or tribunal, mentioned in the preceding sec
tions, may be reversed, vacated or modified by the supreme
court, for errors appearing on the record; but the petition in
error, in such case, can be filed only by leave of the supreme
court or a judge thereof.
Sec. 514. The proceedings to obtain such reversal, vaca- petition \tion or modification in the supreme court shall be by petition, er
to be entitled, "Petition in error," filed in the supreme court,
setting forth the errors complained of, and thereupon a sum
mons shall issue and be served, or publication made, as in the
commencement of an action. A service on the attorney of
record in the original case shall be sufficient. The summons
shall notify the adverse party that a petition in error has been
filed in a certain case, naming it, and shall be made returnable
on or before the first day of the term of the court, if issued in
vacation ; if issued in term time, it shall be returnable on a
day therein named; if the last publication or service of the
summons shall be made ten days before the end of the term,
the case shall stand for hearing at the term.
Sec. 515. The summons mentioned in the last section,
shall, upon the written pnecipe, of the plaintiff in error or his attorney, be issued by the clerk of the court in which the
petition is filed, to the sheriff of any county in which the
defendant in error or his attorney of record may be, and if
the writ issue to a foreign county, the sheriff thereof may return
the same by mail to the clerk, and shall be entitled to the same
fees as if the same had been returnable to the district court of
the county in which such officer resides. The defendant in
error, or his attorney, may waive in writing the issuing or
service of the summons.
Sec. 516. The plaintiff in error shall file with his petition
a transcript of the proceedings containing the final judgment
or order sought to be reversed, vacated or modified.
Sec. 517. Judges of probate courts, justices of the peace,
and other judicial tribunals having no clerk, and clerks of
every court of record, shall, upon request and being paid the
lawful fees therefor, furnish an authenticated transcript of
the proceedings, containing the judgment or final order of
said courts, to either of the parties to the same, or to any per
son interested in procuring such transcript.
Sec. 518. No proceeding to reverse, vacate or modify any
judgment or final order rendered in the probate court, or dis
trict court, except as provided in the next section, and the
fourth subdivision of this section, shall operate to stay execu
tion, unless the clerk of the court in which the record of said
judgment or final order shall be, shall take a written under
taking, to be executed on the part of the plaintiff in error to
the adverse party, with one or more sufficient sureties, a,s
follows :
First, When the judgment or final order sought to be
i-eversed, directs the payment of money, the written under
taking shall be in double the amount of the judgment or
order, to the effect that the plaintiff in error will pay the
condemnation money and costs, in case the judgment or final
order shall be affirmed in whole or in part.
Second, When it directs the execution of a conveyance or
other instrument, the undertaking shall be in such sum as
may be prescribed by any co'irt of record in this Territory,
or any judge thereof, to the effect that the plaintiff in error will abide the judgment, if the same shall he affirmed, and
pay the costs.
Third, When it directs the sale or delivery of possession
of real property, the undertaking shall be in such sum as may
be prescribed by any court of record in this Territory, or any
judge thereof, to the effect that during the possession of such
property by the plaintiff in error, he will not commit or suffer
to be committed any waste thereon, and that if the judgment
be affirmed he will pay the value of the use and occupation
of- the property from the date of the undertaking until the
deliverv of the possession, pursuant to the judgment, and all
costs. When the judgment is for the sale of mortgaged
premises, and the payment of a deficiency arising from tue
sale, the undertaking must also provide for the payment of
Such deficiency.
Fourth, When it directs the assignment or delivery of doc
uments, they may be placed in the custody of the clerk of the
court in which the judgment was rendered, to abide the
judgment of appellate court, or the undertaking may be in
such sum as may be prescribed as aforesaid, to abide the judg
ment and pay costs, if the same shall be affirmed.
Sec. 519. Instead of the undertaking described in the Tll,, mui,.n;iksecond subdivision of the last section, the conveyance or other "'"'
instrument may be executed and deposited with the clerk of
the court in which judgment was rendered or order made,
to abide the judgment of the appellate court.
Sec. 520. Before the written undertaking herein mentioned in section five hundred and eighteen, shall operate to
stay the execution of the judgment or order, the execution
of the undertaking and the sufficiency of the sureties, must
be approved in the court by which the judgment was rendered
or made, or by the clerk thereof; and the clerk shall indorse
said approval, signed by himself, upon the undertaking, and
file the same in his office, for the defendant in error.
Sec. 521. In an action arising on contract, for the pay
ment of money only, notwithstanding the execution of the
undertaking in the last section mentioned, to stay proceedings,
if the defendant in error give adequate security to make res
titution in case the judgment is reversed or modified, he may,
May proceed
to upon leave obtained from the court below, or a judge
thereof
judg- L
c
"><.st.
' in vacation, proceed to enforce the judgment. Such security
enforce

must be an undertaking executed to the plaintiff in error, by
at least two sufficient sureties, to the effect that if the judg
ment be reversed or modified, he will make full restitution to
the plaintiff in error of the money by him received under the
judgment.
Sec. 522. No proceeding for reversing, vacating or modify
Proc. .<:.liu\r to
rcvi'i *.• wiihin
ing
judgments or final orders, shall be commenced unless
thrc; years.
within three years after the rendition of the judgment or
making the final order complained of; or in case the person
entitled to such proceeding be an infant, a married woman, a
person of unsound mind, or imprisoned, within three years as
aforesaid, exclusive of the time of such disability.
shan not operSec. 523. No proceedings to reverse, vacate or modify
:i e
unless under any judgment rendered or final order made by a justice of
taking is Hied.
the peace, shall operate as a stay of execution, unless the
clerk of the district court shall take a written undertaking: to
the defendant, executed on the part of the plaintiff in error,
by one or more sufficient sureties, to the effect that the plain
tiff will pay all costs which have accrued or ma}7 accrue on
such proceedings in error, together with the arnonnt of any
judgment that may be rendered against such plaintiff in error,
either on the further trial of the case, after the judgment of
the court below shall have been set aside or reversed, or upon
and after the affirmance thereof in the district court.
The
person entitled to such proceeding shall have the same time
for prosecuting the same, before he is barred, as is provided
in the last section, unless the said judgment has been paid off
or satisfied, prior to the commencement of such proceedings.
,lti1(!l. jnd.'Sec. 524. Execution of the judgment or final order of any
mcuts stayed. ju(ijc;al tribunal, other than those enumerated in this title,
may be stayed on such terms, as may be prescribed by the
court or a judge thereof, in which the proceedings are pend-
Sec. 525. When a judgment or final order shall be
reversed, either in whole or in part, in the supreme court, the
court reversing the same shall proceed to render such judg
ment as the court below' should have rendered, or remand the cause to the court below for such judgment; and the court
reversing such judgment or final order shall not issue execu
tion in causes that are removed before them on error, on which
they pronounced judgment as aforesaid, but shall send a
special mandate to the court below as the case may require,
to award execution thereupon; and such court to which such
special mandate is sent, shall proceed in such cases in the
same manner as if such judgment or final order had been
rendered therein. An<t on motion and good cause shown, it
mav suspend any execution made returnable before it by order
of the supreme court, in the same manner as if such execu
tion had been issued from its own court, but such power shall
not extend further than to stay proceedings until the matter
can be further heard by the supreme court.
Sec. 526. When a judgment or final order is reversed,
the plaintiff in error shall recover his costs, and when reversed
in part, and affirmed in part, costs shall be equally divided
between the parties.
Sec. 527. When a judgment or final order shall be when affirmed,
affirmed in the supreme court, the said court shall also render
judgment against the plaintiff in error, for five per cent, upon
the amount due from him to the defendant in error, unless the
court shall enter upon its minutes that there was reasonable
ground for the proceeding in error.
Sec. 528. A mistake, neglect or omission of the clerk Mistake of
shall not be a ground of error until the same has been pre- ground of error,
sented and acted upon in the court in which the mistake,
neglect or omission occurred.
Sec. 52'J. Rendering judgment before the action stood for
trial, according to the provisions of this code, shall be deemed
a clerical error.
Sec. 530. Writs of error shall be allowed to reverse, Writs of <.mu.
vacate or modify judgments or final orders in civil cases a °""'
without reference to the petition in error, provided for in this
title, and appellant may choose either method of proceeding
to the appellate court.
Sec. 531. If the judgment of a justice of the peace taken juBtjce:,. -Ild,..
on error as herein provided, to the district court, be ™enaV6?ri c't
affirmed, it shall be the duty of such court to render judg-coult' ment against the plaintiff in error, for costs of the suit, and
to award execution therefor, and the court shall thereupon
order his clerk to certify its decision in the premises, to the
justice, that the judgment affirmed may be enforced, as if such
proceedings in error had not been taken ; or such court mav
award execution to carry into effect the judgment of such
jiHtice, in the same manner as if such judgment had been
rendered in the district court.
four; on apSkc. 532. When the proceedings of a justice of the peace
s- are taken on error to the district court, in manner aforesaid,
IVIl'IlT
incur.
and the judgment of such justice shall be reversed or set
aside, the court shall render judgment of reversal, and for the
costs that have accrued in obtaining such reversal in favor of
the plaintiff' in error, and award execution therefor; and the
cause shall be retained by the court for trial and final judg
ment, as in cases of appeal.
Proceedings to Reverse,

Vacate, or Modify Judgments and

Orders in the Courts in which they are Rendered.
proccedins* to
Sec. 533. A district court shall have power to vacate or
or modify jntig-modiiy its own judgments or orders after the term at which
such judgment or order is made:
First. By granting a new trial of the cause, within the time
and manner prescribed in section three hundred and ten.
Second, By a new trial granted in proceedings against
defendants, constructively summoned, as provided in section
sixty-six.
Third, For mistake, neglect or omission of the clerk, or
irregularity in obtaining a judgment or order.
Fourth, For fraud practiced by the successful party in
obtaining the judgment or order.
Fifth, For erroneous proceedings against an infant, married
woman or person of unsound mind, when the condition of such
defendant does not appear in the record, nor the error in the
proceedings.
Sixth, For the death of one of the parties before the judg
ment in the action.
Seventh, For unavoidable casualty or misfortune preventing
the party from prosecuting or defending.
reverse, vacate
Eighth, For errors in a judgment shown by an infant in
twelve months after arriving at full age, as prescribed in sec
tion three hundred and ninety-three.
Ninth, For taking judgments upon warrants of attorney,
for more than was due to the plain tiff, when the defendant was .
not summoned or otherwise legally notified of the time and
place of taking such judgment.
Sec. o34. The proceedings to vacate or modify the judg-shanbe >w i-incut or order on the grounds mentioned an subdivisions iour,
five, six, seven, eight and nine of the hist preceding section,
shall be by petition, verified by affidavit, setting forth the
judgment or order, the grounds to vacate or modify it, and the
defense to the action, if the party applying was defendant. On
such petition, a summons shall issue and be served as in the
commencement of an action.
Sec 535. The proceedings to correct mistakes or omissions shall be inof the clerk, or irregularity in obtaining a judgment or order,
shall be by motion upon reasonable notice to the adverse
party or his attorneys in the action. The motion to vacate a
judgment because of its rendition before the action regularly
stood for trial, can be made only in the first three days of the
succeeding term.
Sec. 536. The court may first try and decide upon the
grounds to vacate or modify a judgment or order before trying
or deciding upon the validity of the defense or cause of action.
Sec. 537. A judgment shall not be vacated on motion or suaii r.ot be
petition, until it is adjudged that there is a valid defense to etc'
the action in which the judgment is rendered, or, if the plain
tiff seek its vacation, that there is a valid cause of action; and
where a judgment is modified, all liens and securities obtained
under it, shall be preserved to the modified judgment.
Sec. 538. The 1party
seeking;
to vacate
or modify
a iudg- May
obtain inJ
junction.
ment or order, may obtain an injunction suspending proceed
ings on the whole or a part thereof, which injunction may be
granted hy the court or any judge thereof, upon its being
rendered probable, by affidavit or by exhibition of the record,
that the party is entitled to have such judgment or order
vacated or modified.
Susp litis ion
Sec. 539. When the judgment was rendered before the may be ^ranre'l action stood for trial, the suspension may be granted as pro
vided in the last section, although no valid defense to the
action is shown ; and the court shall make such orders con
cerning the executions to be issued on the judgment as shall
give to the defendant the same rights of delay he would have
had if the judgment had been rendered at the proper time.
n-iKvrdinixs to
Sec. 540. Proceedings to vacate or modify a judgment
VMcaU' or modt.
iy must be com- or order lor the causes mentioned in subdivisions tonr, nve and
liicnccd within
.
mo years.
seven, ot section five hundred and thirty-three, must be
commenced within two years after the judgment was ren
dered, or order made, unless the party entitled thereto, be an
infant, married woman or person of unsound mind, and then
within two years after the removal of such disability. Pro
ceedings for the causes mentioned in subdivisions three and
six of the same section, shall be within three years, and sub
division nine within one year after the defendant has notice
of the judgment.
rfii-i net ap- . Sec. 541. The provisions of this title subsequent to sec
. tu
tion five hundred and thirty-two shall apply to the supreme
court and probate court, so far as the same may be applicable
to the judgments or final orders of such courts. The parties
shall be limited to the same time in which to commence pro
ceedings, and in estimating time, the probate court shail, for
this purpose be considered as holding, in each year, three
terms, of four months each, the first commencing on the first
day of January of each year.
TITLE XVII.
Costs.
iv-idcnt
Sec. 542. In all cases in which the plaintiff is a non-resi.it"nfor dent of the county in which the action is to he brought, before
commencing such action, the plaintiff must furnish a sufficient
security for the costs. The surety must be a resident of the
county where the action is to be brought, and approved by the
clerk.
His obligation shall be complete simply by indorsing
the summons, or signing his name on the complaint, as.
security for costs. He shall be bound for the payment of all
costs, -which may be adjudged against the plaintiff in the court
in which the action is brought, or any other to which -it may he carried, and for costs of the plaintiff's witnesses, whether
the plaintiff obtain judgment or not.
Sec. 543. An action in which security for costs is required Action i mlsss(l unless
by the last section, and has not been given, shall be dismissed security given,
on motion and notice by the defendant at any proper time
before judgment, unless, in a reasonable time to be allowed by
the court, such security for costs be given.
Sec. 544. If the plaintiff in an action, after its commence
ment, becomes a non-resident of the county in which it is
brought, he shall give security for costs in the manner and
under the restrictions provided in the two preceding sections.
Sec. 545. In an action in which security for costs has Defendant may
been given, the defendant may, at any time before judgment, security.
after reasonable notice to the plaintiff, move the court for
additional security on the part of the plaintiff; and if, on
such motion, the court be satisfied that the security has removed
from this Territory, or is not sufficient, the action may be dis
missed, unless, in a reasonable time, to be fixed by the court,
sufficient security be given by the plaintiff.
Sec. 546. After final judgment has been rendered in an judgment may
action in which security for costs has been given as required against defendby this title, the court, on motion of the defendant, or any for costs^.
other person having a right to such costs, or any part thereof
after ten days' notice of such motion, may enter up judgment
in the name of the defendant, or his legal representatives,
against the surety for costs, his executors or administrators,
for the amount of the costs adjudged against the plaintiff, or
so much thereof as may be unpaid. Execution may be issued
on such judgment, as in other cases, for the use and benefit
of the persons entitled to such coetg.
Sec. 547. If any informer, under a penal statute, to informer shaij
whom the penalty or any part thereof, if recovered, is given, p&> eoa F'
shall dismiss his suit or prosecution, or fail in the same, he
shall pay all costs accruing on such such suit or prosecution,
unless he be an officer whose duty it is to commence the same.
Sec. 548. When defendants disclaim having any title orcoats
interest, or land or other property, the subject matter of the
action, they shall recover their costs, unless for special reasons
the court decide otherwise.
Sec. 549. Unless otherwise provided by statute, the costs
of motions, continuances, amendments and the like, shall be
taxed and paid as the court in its discretion may direct.
Sec, 550. Where it is not otherwise provided by this and
other statutes, costs shall be allowed of course to the plaintiff,
upon a judgment in his favor, in actions for the recoverv of
money only, or for the recovery of specific real or personal
property.
siiaii not iv- Sec. 551. If it shall appear that a justice of the peace
covori;i certain ...-...„.
caaeB.
has jurisdiction of an action, and the same lias been brought
in any other court, the plaintiff shall not recover costs; and
in all actions for libel, slander, malicious prosecution, assault
and battery, false imprisonment, criminal conversation, seduc
tion, actions for nuisance, or against a justice of the peace for
misconduct in office, if the damages assessed be under five
dollars, the plaintiff shall not recover any costs.
Sec. 552. Costs shall be allowed of course to any defend
ant upon a judgment in his favor in the actions mentioned in
the last two sections.
Sec. 553. In other actions the court may award and tax
costs, and apportion the same between the parties on the same
or adverse sides, as in its discretion it may think right and
equitable.
Sec. 554. When several actions are brought on one bill
of exchange, promissory note or other obligation or instru
ment in writing, against several parties who might have been
joined as defendants in the same action, as allowed by section
thirty-four of this code, no costs shall be recovered by the
plaintiff in more than one of such actions, if the parties pro
ceeded against in the other actions were at the commencement
of the previous action, openly within the Territory.
Sec. 555. When a summons is issued to another county
than that in which the action or proceeding is pending, it
may be returned by mail, and the sheriff shall be entitled to
the same fees as if the summons had issued in the county of
which he is sheriff.

Sec. 556.

An action may be brought by any person in possession, by himself or tenant, of real property, against any
person who claims an estate, or interest therein, adverse to
him, for the purpose of determining such adverse estate, or
interest.
Sec. 5.r>7. In an action for the recovery of real property, Petition shaii
state.

it shall bo sufficient if the plaintiff state, in his petition, that
he has a legal or equitable estate therein, and is -entitled to
the possession thereof, describing the same, as required by
section one hundred and twenty-three, and that the defendant
unlawfully hoops him out of the possession. It shall not be
necessary to state how the plaintiff's estate or ownership is
derived.
Sec. f>o8. It shall be sufficient, in such action, if theAB*W<!r.
defendant, in his answer, deny generally, the title alleged in
the petition, or that he withholds the possession, as the case
i
may be; hut if he deny the title of the plaintiff, possession
by the defendant shall be taken as admitted. Where he does
not defend for the whole premises, the answer shall describe
the particular part For which defense is made.
Sec. .V>9. In an action by a tenant in common of real
property, against a eo-tenant, the plaintiff" must, in addition
ro what is requirod in section five hundred and fifty-seven,
state in his petition that the defendant either denied the
plaintiff's right, or did some act amounting to such denial.
'Se€. otiO. In an action for the recovery of real property,
where the plaintiff shows a right to recover at the time the
action was commenced, but it appears that his right has
terminated during the pendency of the action, the verdict and
judgment must be according to the fact, and the plaintiff may
recover forthwith, holding the property.
The parties in an action for the recovery of property, may
avail themselves, if entitled thereto, of the relief of the
statutes in force for the relief of occupying claimants of land.
Sec. 501. The action of waste is abolished, but any pro- Aeti,m„r„->h
ceedings heretofore commenced, or judgment rendered, or a;H,hsucdright acquired, shall not be affected thereby; and where the
action of waste is specially mentioned and authorised in any
statute, it may be used until otherwise provided; but it shall
be commenced and proceeded in throughout, in the manner prescribed for the civil action in this code. Wrongs hereto
fore remediable by actions of waste, are subjects of actions as
other wrongs, and the same relief shall be granted, as may
now be granted under the action of waste.
Actions on Official Securitiex,
Actions on
Sec. 562. When an officer, executor or administrator
official securilies.
within this lerntory, by misconduct or neglect of duty, forfeits his bonds or renders his sureties liable, any person
injured thereby, or who is by law entitled to the benefit of
the security, may bring an action thereon in his own name,
against the officer, executor or administrator and his sureties,
to recover the amount to which he may be entitled by reason
of the delinquency. The action may be instituted and pro
ceeded in a certified copy of the bond, which copy shall be
furnished by the person holding the original thereof.
Sec. 563. A judgment in favor of a party for one delin
quency, does not preclude the same, or another party from
an action' on the same security for another delinquency.
Sec. 564. When the object of the action is to effect a
partition of real property among several joint owners, the
petition must describe the property and the respective inter
ests of the several owners thereof, if known.
Sec. 565. If the number of shares or interests is known,
but the owners thereof are unknown, or if there are, or are
supposed to be, any interests which are unknown, contingent
or doubtful, these facts must be set forth in the petition with
reasonable certainty.
Sec. 566. Creditors having a specific or general lien upon
all or any portion of the property may or may not be made
parties, at the option of the plaintiff.
Sec. 567. If the lien is upon one or more undivided
interests of any of the parties, it shall, after partition or sale,
remain a charge -upon those particular interests or the pro
ceeds thereof. But the due proportion of costs is a charge
upon those interests paramount to all other liens.
Sec. 568. The answers of the defendants must state,
7Vfcn <hint's
answer.
among other things, the amount and nature of their respective interests, They may deny the interests of any of the
plaintiffs, and by supplemental pleading, if necessary, may
deny the interests of any of the other defendants.
Sec. 5t>9. When there are two or more plaintiffs they
may reply jointly, or either of them may reply to any or all
the answers of the defendants.
Sim. 570. Issues may, thereupon, be joined and tried
between any of the contesting parties, the question of costs
on such issues being regulated between the contestants agree
ably to the principles applicable to other cases.
Sec. 571. Each of the parties appearing, whether as proor or title,
plaintiff or defendant, must exhibit his documentary proof of
title, if he has any, and must file the same, or copies thereof,
with the clerk.
Sec. 572. If the statements in the petitions and answers Taken as trm-.
are not contradicted in the manner aforesaid, or by the
documentary proof exhibited as above required, they shall be
taken as true.
Sec. 573. After all the shares and interests of the parties
have been settled in any of the methods aforesaid, judgment
shall be rendered confirming those shares and interests, and
directing partition to be made accordingly.
Sec. 574. Upon entering such judgment, the court shall Rcferl,e,
appoint referees to make partition into the requisite number
of shares.
Sec. 575. For good and sufficient reasons appearing tosl4&rct, how
the court, the referees may be directed to allot particular all0,",<1portions of the land to particular individuals. In other cases,
the shares must be made as nearly as possible of equal
value.
Sec. 576. If it appears to the referees that partition Ref ree,*
cannot be made without great prejudice to the owners, they port,
shall so report to the court.
Sec. 577. If satisfied with such report, the court shall
cause an order to be entered directing the referees to sell the
premises so situated, and shall also fix the terms of the sale.
Sec. 578. Before proceeding to sell, the referees shall Referees mn*1
each give security, to be approved by the court or judge glve sec"'"v
thereof, conditioned for the faithful discharge of his duties.
At any time thereafter the court may require further and hotter
security.
sutiocof sale.
Sec. 579. The same notice of sale shall be given as when
lands are sold on execution by the sheriff, and the sale shall
he conducted in like manner.
Sec. 580. After completing- said sale, the referees mustreport their proceedings to the court with a description of the
different parcels of hind sold to each purchaser, and the price
bid therefor, which report shall be filed with the clerk.
Mrrirr at court.
Sec. 581. After making the onler of sale as aforesaid..
the court shall direct the clerk to report whether there be any
general incumbrance by mortgage, judgment or otherwise.
upon any portion of the property.
Sec. 582. If deemed advisable, the court may appoint »
referee to inquire into the nature and amount of incumbrances,
and report accordingly. From that report an appeal lies to
the court.
Sec. 583. The referee shall give the parties interested at
least five days, notice of the time and place when he will
receive proof of the amount of such incumbrances.
Sec. 584. In taking such proof he may receive, with
other evidence, the affidavit of the parties interested,
[mimiiu'trncvr
^cx'- ',>^'->- -^ il".v incnmbr;niee be ascertained to exist, the
proceeds of tap sale of that portion, after the payment of Costs,
or so much thereof as necessary, shall, if the owner consent,
be paid over to the incumbrancer.
Sec. 58G. If the ownei object to the payment of such
incumbrance, the money shall be retained or invested by order
of the court to await final action in relation to its disposition,
and notice thereof shall be forthwith given to the incumbran
cer, unless he has already been made a party.
Sec. 587. The court may direct an issue to be made up
between the incumbrancer and owner, which issue, when deter
mined, shall be decisive of their respective rights.
Sec. 588. If an estate for life or years be found to exist
[Csiulr fur Hfc.
as an incumbrance upon any part of said property, and if the
parties cannot agree upon the sum in gross which they will
consider an equivalent for such an estate, the court shall
direct the avails of the incumbered property to be invested. and the proceeds to be paid to the incumbrancer during the
existence of the incumbrance.
Sec . 589. The proceedings in relation to the incumbran
ces shall not delay the distribution of the proceeds of other
shares, in respect to which no difficulties exist.
Sec. 590. The court in its discretion may require any or
all of the parties, before they receive the moneys arising from
any sale authorized in this title, to give satisfactory security
to refund such moneys and interest, in case it afterwards
appears that such parties were not entitled thereto.
Sec. 591. If the sale aforesaid be approved and confirmed
by the court, an order shall be entered directing the referees,
or any two of them, to execute conveyances pursuant to such
sales. But no conveyance can be made until all the money is
paid, without receiving from the purchaser a mortgage of the
land so sold, or other equivalent security.
Sec. 592. Such conveyances so executed, being recorded
in the county where the premises are situate, shall be valid
against all subsequent purchasers, and also against all persons
interested at the time, who were made parties to the proceed
ings in the mode pointed out by law.
Sec. 598. If the owner of any share thus sold has a hus
band or wife living, and if such husband and wife do not
agree as to the disposition that shall be made of the proceeds
of such sale, the court must direct it to be invested in real
estate under the supervision of such person as it may appoint,
taking the title in the name of the owner of the share sold as
aforesaid.
Sec. 594. If the sales are disapproved, the money paid
and the securities given must be returned to the persons
respectively entitled thereto.
Sec. 595. When partition is deemed proper, the referees
must mark out the shares by visible monuments and may
employ a competent surveyor and the necessary assistance to
aid them.
Sec. 596. The report of the referees must be in writing,
signed by at least two of them. It must describe the respec
tive shares with reasonable particularity, and be accompanied
by a plat of the premises.
Sec. 597. Unless the shares are alloted to their respective
, owners by the referees as hereinbefore contemplated, the clerk
shall number the shares and then draw the names of the future
owners by lot.
Sec. 598. When partition can be conveniently made of
part of the premises, but not of all, one portion maybe parti
tioned and the other sold as hereinafter provided.
Sec. 599. On good cause shown, the report may be set
aside, and the matter again referred to the same or other
referees.
Sec. 600. Upon the report of the referees being confirmed,
judgment thereon shall be rendered that the partition be firm
and effectual forever.
Sec. 601. When all the parties in interest have been duly
notified to appear and answer, either by the service of the
petition and notice, or by the publication prescribed by law,
any of the proceedings above authorized shall be binding and
conclusive upon them all. If only a portion of such parties
be served, they only shall be bound by such proceedings,

.hutment of
Sec. 602. The judgment of partition shall be presumptive
Humptive evi- evidence of title in all cases, and as between the parties them
<i<'lH't'
selves it is conclusive evidence thereof, subject however, to be
defeated by proof of a title paramount to, or independent of,
that under which the parties held as joint tenants, or tenants
in common.
Sec. 603. All the costs of the proceedings in partition
shall be paid in the first instance by the plaintiffs, but
eventually by all the parties in proportion to their interests,
except those costs which are created by contests above pro
vided for.
Sec. 604. Any person claiming to bold an incumbrance
upon any portion of the property involved in the suit, may,
in default of the owner, appear and act as his representative
in any of the proceedings under this title,
contingent inSec. 605. Persons having contingent interests in such
terest*.

property may be made parties to the proceedings, and the
proceeds of the property so situated (or the property itself in
case of partition), shall be subject to the order of the court
until the right becomes fully vested.
The ascertained share of any absent owner Absent owner*
share.
shall be retained, or the proceeds invested for his benefit.
Proceedings on Mandamus.
Sec. 607. The writ of mandamus may be issued to any Mandamus.
inferior tribunal, corporation, board or person, to compel the
performance of an act which the law specially enjoins as a
duty resulting from an office, trust or station. But, though
it may require an inferior tribunal to exercise its judgment,
or proceed to the discharge of any of its functions, it cannot
control judicial discretion.
Sec. 608. This writ may not be issued in any case where when issued,
there is a plain and adequate remedy in the ordinary course
of the law. It may issue on the information of the party
beneficially interested.
Sec. 609. The writ is either alternative or peremptory, what the writ
mi
i
•
.
i
i
f
i
must contain.
Ihe alternative writ must state concisely the tacts showing
the obligation of the defendant to perform the act, and his
omission to perform it, and command him that immediately
upon receipt of the writ, or at some other specified time, he
do the act required to be performed or show cause before the
court whence the writ issued, at a specified time and place,
why he has not done so ; and that he then and there return
the writ with his certificate of having done as he is com
manded. The peremptory writ must be in a similar form,
except that the words requiring the defendant to show cause
why he has not done as commanded, must be omitted.
Sec. 610. When the right to require the performance of
the act is clear, and it is apparent that no valid excuse can
be given for not performing it, a peremptory mandamus may
may be allowed in the first instance; in all other cases the
alternative writ must be first issued.
Sec. 611. The motion for the writ must be made upon
affidavit, and the court may require a notice of the application
to be given to the adverse party, or may grant an order to
show cause why it should not be allowed, or may grant the
writ without notice.
Sec. 612. The allowance of the writ must be endorsed
thereon, signed by the judge of the court granting it, and the
writ must be served personally upon the defendant; if the defendant personally served, neglect to return the same, he
shall be proceeded against as for a contempt.
Sec. 613. On the return day of the alternative writ, or
such further day as the court may allow, the party on whom
the writ shall have been served, may show cause by answer
made in the same manner as an answer to a petition in a civil
action.
Sec. 614. If no answer is made, a peremptory mandamus
must be allowed against the defendant ; if answer be made
containing new matter, the same shall not, in any respect,
conclude the plaintiff, who may, on the trial or other proceed
ing, avail himself of any valid objections to sufficiency, or
may countervail it by proof, either in direct denial or by way
of avoidance.
Sec. 615. No other pleading or written allegation is
allowed than the writ and answer; these are the pleading in
the case, and have the same effect, and are to be construed an<l
may be amended in the same manner as pleadings in a civil
action; and the issues thereby joined must be tried, and the
further proceedings thereon had, in the same manner as in a
civil action.
Sec. 616. If judgment bo given for the plaintiff, he shall
recover the damages which he shall have sustained, to be
ascertained by the court or jury, or by referees, as in a civil
action, and costs ; and a peremptory mandamus shall, also, be
granted to him without delay.
Sec. 617. A recovery of damages by virtue of this title,
against a party who shall have made a return to a writ of
mandamus, is a bar to any other action against the same party
for the making of such return.
Sec. 618. Whenever a peremptory mandamus is directed
to any public officer, body or board, commanding the per
formance of any public duty, specially enjoined by law, if it
appear to the court that such officer or any member of such
body or board, has, without just excuse, refused or neglected
to perform the duty so enjoined, the court may impose a fine,
not exceeding five hundred dollars, upon every such officer or
member of such body or board. Such fine, when collected,
shall be paid into the treasury of the county where the duty ought to have been performed ; and the payment thereof is a
bar to an action for any penalty incurred by such officer or
member of such body or board, by reason of his refusal or
neglect to perform the duty so enjoined.
TITLE XIX.
General Provisions Applicable to the Whole Code—Process.
Sec. (>W. The style of all process shall be '-The Territory siyil. nf pro-.
of Wyoming." It shall be under the seal of the court from
whence the same shall issue, shall be signed Ly the clerk, and
dated the day it is issued.
Sec. 620. An order for a provisional remedy or unv other pww-- uin-r;.
. oil in cururiiT.
process, in an action wherein the sheriff is a party or -is
interested, shall be directed to the coroner. If both these
officers are interested, the process shall be directed to, and
executed by a person appointed as provided in the next sec
tion.
Sec. 621. The court or judge, for good cause, may appoint court may up
,
-.
-.
iii7
point ti porson
a person to serve a particular process or order, who shall have to serve a par'
.
i • i
i
i
-iv i
<in
tirular priiro-c
the same power to execute it, which the sheriff has. lhe per
son may be appointed on the application of the party obtain
ing the process or order, and the return must be verified by
affidavit. He shall be entitled to the same fees allowed to the
sheriff for similar services.
Duties of Clerks.
Sec. 622. All writs and orders for provisional remedies Duties of ciork.
and process of every kind, shall be issued by the clerks of the
several courts, upon a prcecipe filed with the clerk, demand
ing the same.
Sec. 623. It is the duty of each clerk of the court to file
together and carefully preserve in his office, all papers delivered
to him for that purpose, in every action or special proceeding.
Sec. 624. He shall endorse upon every paper filed with
him, the day of filing it; and upon every undertaking given
under the same, the day of its return to his office.
Sec. 625. He shall, upon the return of every summons
served, enter upon the appearance docket the name of the
defendant or defendants summoned, and the day of service upon each one. The entry shall be evidence of the service of
the summons, in case of the loss thereof.
Sec. 626. He shall keep the records and books and papers
appertaining to the court, and record its proceedings.
Sec. 627. The provisions of this title shall, as far as they
are applicable, apply to the clerks of all courts of record.
Sec. 658. The clerk of each of the courts shall exercise
the powers and perform the duties conferred upon him by
other provisions of this code, by statutes, and by the common
law. In the performance of his duties, he shall be under the
direction of his court.

iiutif* of

Duties of Sheriff.
Sec. 629. The sheriff shall indorse upon every summons,
order of arrest, or for the delivery of property, or of attach
ment or injunction, the day and hour it was received by
him.
Sec. 630. He shall execute every summons, order or
other process, and return the same as required by law ; and
if be fail to do so, unless he make it appear to the satisfaction
of the court that he was prevented by inevitable accident from
so doing, he shall be amerced by court in a sum not exceed
ing one thousand dollars, upon a motion and ten days' notice,
and he and his sureties shall be liable to the action of any
person aggrieved by such failure.

Miscellaneous Provisions.
Sec. 631. Any duty enjoined by this code upon a minis
terial officer, and any act permitted to be done by him, may
be performed by his lawful deputy.
Affirmation Sec. 632. Whenever an oath is required b\' this code, the
<\|tuil i<- oath.
...
.
«
-| .
affirmation of a person, conscientiously scrupulous ot taking
an oath, shall have the same effect.
Sec. 633. The time within which an act is to be done,
Time
shall be computed by excluding the first day, and including
the last ; if the last day be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
Sec. 634. Section three hundred and eighty-three shall
not be construed to impair the right of a party to a jury, if
he appear at the trial by himself or attorney, and demand the
same.
Sec. 635. The ministerial officer, whose duty it is to take Taking pccusecurity in any undertaking provided for in this code, shall
have the right to require the person offered as surety, to make
an affidavit of his qualifications, which affidavit may bo made
x
before such officer. The taking of such affidavit shall not
exempt the officer from any liability, to which hj might other
wise be subject, for taking insufficient security.
Sec. 6*36. The surety in every undertaking provided for s arety mnsi «<•
by this code, must be a resident of this Territory, and worth this Territory,
double the sum to be secured, beyond the amount of his debts,
and have property liable to execution in this Territory, equal
to the sum to be secured. Where there are two or more
sureties in the same undertaking, they must, in the aggregate,
have the qualifications prescribed in this section.
Sec. 637. The judges of the supreme court shall, at their .Tid-*:-s of uic 
. supreme co in
first session, and everv two years thereafter, meet at the capi- ""st rcvi*e
their rules.
tal of the Territory, and revise their general rules, and make
such amendments thereto as .may be required to carry into
effect the provisions of this code, and shall make such other
rules consistent therewith as they may deem proper. The
rules so made shall apply to the supreme court, the district
courts, the probate courts, and all other courts of record.
Sec. 638. In all actions upon
bills of exchange
or promisinitial
name
1
c
l
sufficient in
sorv notes, or other written instruments, whenever anv of the pleading neerJ

"

tain cases.

parties thereto are designated by the initial letter or letters,
or some contraction of the christian or first name or names, it
shall be sufficient to designate such person by the name, ini
tial letter or letters, or contraction of the first name or names,
instead of stating the christian or first name or names in full.
Sec. t58!1. Any company or association of persons, formed company not
.
,
i
i
lucorp o r a l eil
fur the purpose of carrying on any trade or business, or for may sue.
the purpose of holding any species of property in this Terri
tory, and not incorporated, may sue and be sued by such usual
name as such company, partnership, or association may have
assumed to itself or be known by, and it shall not be necessary
in such case to set forth in the process or pleadings, or to
piove at the trial, the names of the persons composing the
t ompany.
Sec. 640. Process against any such company or firm iTervcdf, h"w
shall be served by a copy left at their usual place of doing
business within the county, with one of the members of such
company or firm, or with a clerk or general agent thereof, and
executions issued on any judgment rendered in such proceed
ings shall be levied only on partnership property.
Sec. 641. In cases where a company shall rue in its
partnership name, such company shall procure the writ to be
indorsed by a responsible surety, resident of the county, for
costs, or otherwise give security for costs.
Sec. (542. If the plaintiff, in any judgment so rendered
against any company or partnership, shall seek to charge the
individual property of the person composing such company or
firm, it shall be lawful for him to file a bill in chancery against
the several members thereof, setting forth his judgment and
the insufficiency of the partnership property to satisfy, the
same, and to have a decree for the debt, und an award of exe
cution against all such persons or any of them as may appear
to have been members of such company, association or firm.
i-i.iuti:r may
Seo. 643. The party plaintiff in any case pending in the
district or supreme court shall, where no counter claim or set
off has been filed by the opposite party, have the right in the
vacation of any of said courts, to dismiss his said action
without prejudice, upon payment of costs; which said dis
missal shall be by the clerk of any of said courts, entered
upon the journal, and take effect from and after the date
thereof.
Provisions ag to the Operation of the Code.
nits code does
^ec. ^44. ^ne provisions of this code do not apply to
i>"nrtinnplcnaesI proceedings in actions or suits pending when it takes effect.
They shall be conducted to final judgment or decree, in all
respects, as if it had not been adopted ; but the provisions of
this code shall apply after a judgment, order or decree,
heretofore or hereafter rendered, to the proceedings to enforce,
vacate, modify or reverse it.
Rights of civil action given or secured by existing laws,
shall be prosecuted in the manner provided for by this code,
except as provided in the next section. If a case ever arise
in which an action or proceeding for the enforcement or pro
tection of a right, or the redress or prevention of a wrong. cannot be had under this code, the practice of the common
law may be adopted, so far as may be necessary to prevent a
failure of justice.
Sec. 1545. Until the legislature shall otherwise provide, TMe code shui!
this code shall not affect proceedings to assess damages for
private property taken for public uses, nor proceedings under
the statutes for the settlement of estates of deceased persons,
ttor proceedings under statutes relating to apprentices, bas
tardy, insolvent debtors or any special statutory remedy not
heretofore obtained by action ; but such proceedings may be
prosecuted under the code whenever it is applicable.
Sec. 616- Where, by general or special statute, a civil shall not atfeci
proceed In a"
action is given,
and the mode of proceeding. therein is pre- statutes,
under special
K.
scribed, this code shall not affect the proceedings under such
statute, until the legislature shall otherwise provide ; but in
all such cases, as far as it may be consistent with the statute
giving such action, and practicable under this code the pro
ceedings shall be conducted in conformity thereto. Where
the statute designates, by name or otherwise, the kind of
notion, but does not prescribe the mode of proceeding therein,
such action shall be commenced and prosecuted in conformity
to this code ; where the statute gives an action, but does not
designate the kind of action, or prescribe the mode of proceed
ing therein, such action shall be held to be the civil action of
this code, and proceeded in accordingly.
Definitions.
Sec. 647. The general terms, "whoever," "any person," Definitions,
"any one," and the relative pronouns, "he" and "they," as
referring to these terms, include females as well as males,
unless there is some express declaration to the contrary.
The word " man " is used to signify a male person of any
age, and the word " woman " a female person of any age.
Sec. 648. The use of any word expressive of relationship,
state, condition, office or trust of any person, as of parent,
child, ascendant, descendant, minor, infant, ward, guardian,
or the like, or the relative ' pronoun "he," or "they," in
reference thereto, includes both males and females.
Sec. 649. The use of the singular number includes the
plural, and the plural the singular, and the words used in 
the masculine gender include the feminine also, Unless by
reasonable construction that such was not the intention of the
language.
Sec. 650. Whenever any property or interest is intended
to be protected by a provision of the civil code, and the
general term "person," or ;sny other general term is used to
designate the party whose property is intended to he pro
tected, the provision of tlfe civil code, and the protection
(hereby given, shall extend to the property of the Territory,
or of any county, and of all public or private corporations.
Sec. 651. The word "writing" includes printing; the
Word "oath" includes affirmation.
Sec. 652. The word " signature " includes tfce mark of itperson unable to write his name ; a mark shall have the same
effect as a signature, when the name is written by some othei^
person and the mark is made near thereto by the person
unable to write his name.
Sec. 653- -Except where a word, term or phrase i» spe
cially denned, all word? used in this code are to be taken and
construed in the sense in which they are understood in com
mon language, taking into consideration the subject matter
relative to which they are employed.
Sec. 654. For the purpose of proceeding under the pro
visions of this code, the term "reaJ estate," "real property '*
and "realty " shall include mines, mining property, possessory
right to lands, and all other property of a fixed and immov
able nature, whether the same he of the class or classes above
enumerated, or of other classes or kinds of property.
Sec. 655. The preceding provisions of this, code Live no
application in chancery cases or to practice in courts of
equity.

Sec. 656. All a:efi«>M» in chancery shall be commenced by
filing,, in the office of the tsgister of tlie proper court, a bil!
of cosaplaint setting foFth the" nature of the complaint, agree
ably to the usages and practice of courts of equity, and
causing a subpoena to be issued thereon, except a» ho einafter
provided fo.v servke on non-residents.
Sec. Go7. The subpoena shall be issued and signed by the The eubpn-m.
register of said court, under the seal thereof, dated on the
< lay it is issued ; it shall run in the name of the Territory of
Wyoming, and shall be directed to the defendant or defend
ants named in the bill, requiring him or them to appear and
answer the said bill on or before the day therein named, as
hereinafter provided. If one or more defendants reside in
ii ny other county of this Territory than that in which the
action is rightly brought, then, on the request of the com
plainant or complainants, subptena may be issued as aforesaid,
against such defendant or defendants, to such county. The
subpoena may be served by the sheriff or coroner of the
county in which the defendant or defendants to be sued
reside, and if there be no sheriff or coroner in such county,
then, by such person as the register may designate: Provided,
That whenever any subpoena shall be served by a person
designated by such register, the person making such service
shall verify the same by his own affidavit.
Ske. t558. The subpoena
shall be made returnable on the m
second Monday after the day of its date, except when issued ";,''','," ".""'""
to any other county than that in which the action is brought,
it may be made leturnable at the option of the party having
it issued, on the third or fourth Monday after its date, and
shall require tiie defendant or defendants therein named, to
appear and answer the bill on the third Monday after the
date of the return thereof, and the day of the month on which
the defendant is required to answer the bill shall be inserted
in the subpoena.
Sec. ti">9. Service of snbpiena shall be made by deliver- Ttu, ^,rvU.„
ing a certified copy thereof to each defendant personally, or
by leaving one at his usual place of residence at any time
before the return day. The return must state the time and
manner of service, and the officer or person servin" the
sibptena must make his return at the time therein stated.
If the subpoena shall not be returned, served on the defendant
<ir defendants, or any one or more of them, on the return
<lay thereof, the register shall, if required, issue alias or
pluries subpoena against such defendant or defendants as the
rase may be.
Sec. 660. In actions against corporations, service may be
made upon the president, mayor, chairman of the board of
managers, directors or trustees, or other chief officer, or if
its chief officer is not found in the county, then, upon its
secretary, cashier, clerk or agent, or if none of the aforesaid
officers can be found, then by copy left at the office or usual
place of business of such corporation ; and service of subpoena
and return thereof shall be made at the time and in the
manner provided in the last preceding section.
constructive
SEC. 661. Constructive service may be made in all eases
service.
in equity, in which it is permitted in this code, in actions at
law and in addition thereto in all divorce cases, when the
defendant is a non-resident of the Territory. The manner
of making the service by publication and the proof thereof
shall be in all respects the same as is provided for actions at
>
law, provided, that the time in \v'hich defendants shall be
required to answer shall be the second Monday after the
completion of service by publication,
if defendant
Sec. 662. If the defendant or defendants shall fail to
appear and file in the office of the register, his or their
answer, plea, demurrer or exceptions to the bill within the
time hereinbefore required, after service is made by subpoena
or by publication of notice, the complainant or complainants
may in term time, take and enter the default of such defend-ant or defendants, and thereupon the bill shall be taken pro
eonfesso and as true, and the cause shall be proceeded in ear
parte, and such decree shall be rendered or order made
therein by the court as the nature of the case may require,
if the same can be done without answer. If the complainant
or complainants require any discovery or answer to enable
him or them to obtain a proper decree, he or they may, on
leave of the court, have process of attachment against the
defendant or defendants, to compel an answer, or may have
sequestration of the property of such defendant or defendants,
and have his or their demand paid out of the proceeds of the
'property sequestered: Provided however, That for good
cause shown, on due notice to the adverse party, the court
in term, or a judge thereof or master in vacation, may
extend the time of pleading required as aforesaid.
Ske. 663. Every defendant shall fully answer all the Every ciefendii

mit slul" f""T
;tllegations and .interrogatories ot the bill ot complaint, except answer.
such as are not required to be answered by reason of excep
tions, plea or demurrer thereto allowed, unless the court shall
otherwise direct.
Sec. 664. Exceptions to bills and answers for iraperti- Exception*,
nence and scandal shall be in writing, signed by counsel,
describing the particular passages which are considered to be
scandalous or impertinent, and shall be filed to bills within
the time limited for answering the sune, and to answers
within the time limited to replying for the same. If the court
shall find such exceptions to be well taken, it shall order the
register to expunge the scandalous or impertinent matter,
describing the matter so to be expunged with such particular
ity that the same may be identified.
The register shall
expunge such matter by drawing lines in red ink through the
same, and in the margin referring to the order of the court,
by its date and page of the journal in which it is entered.
Exceptions to answers, for insu Scion ev, shall be in writing,
signed by counsel, and shall state fully the matter or interogatory of the bill remaining unanswered, and shall he filed
within the time limited for replying to answers, if the court
shall find the answer insufficient, it shall fix the time for put
ting in a further answer, and specify the same in the order.
If such further answer shall still be insufficient, exceptions
thereto may be filed in the same manner, and within the same
time as to original answers; and if the court shall find such
answer insufficient, it shall fix some reasonable time for put
ting in a second further answer, and specify the same in its
order.' If such second further answer shall be insufficient,
like exceptions may be filed; and if the same shall be found
by the court to he insufficient, the matter of the hill to which
such exceptions apply, and no other parts of the bill, shall be
taken as confessed, unless, for cause, the court. shall otherwise
officially order. When exceptions are filed to pleadings, the
cause shall be set down to be heard thereon by the court with
out reference to a master.
Replications shall be general, and shall be filed on the sec- Replication,
oud Monday after the fiilng of the answer or plea of the defendant, and thereupon either party may enter in the appear
ance docket the name of the master before whom he will take
his testimony, and may proceed therein according to law.
Sec. 665. After replication is filed, the cause shall be
deemed at issue. On default of filing such replication within
the time required in the last preceding section, the cause mav
be set for hearing on bill and answer, unless the court shall
otherwise direct.
o.-r-rr<- pro Sec. 6CA>. In all eases where a decree or final order shall
.:;11, Unto.

be made upon a bill taken pro eonfesno, and the defendant or
defendants shall have been brought before the court by publi
cation only, such non-resident defendants may, upon motion
in open court, have such decree or order opened for a hearing,
upon such non-resident defendant or defendants, showing to
- the satisfaction of the court that he or they have a meritorious
defense to the bill, and did not have any actual notice of the
pendency of the suit in season to make said defense : .Provided,
Such motion shall b.' made within three years from the enter
ing of such decree or final order; Provided further, Thar
infants,, idiots, and insane persons shall have the right to have
such decree or order opened at any time within three years
after such disability shall be removed.
A.nciiiiments.
Sec. 607. Amendments of pleading may be allowed by
the court upon motion and notice thereof to the adverse party,
or his solicitor, cither by a new engrossment of the pleadings
containing the matter of the amendment, or, when the adverse
party shall consent thereto in writing, by an interlineation of
the amendment. Before the time allowed by the court for
amending a pleading has elapsed, the same may be extended :
but after such time has elapsed, further time shall not be
granted, unless the court, for special reasons shown, shall by
order grant a further extension. Matter arising after a party
has filed his pleading, shall be pleaded only by the proper
supplemental pleading.
A defendant shall plead to an
amended bill on or before the fifth Monday after service upon
him, or his solicitor, of notice of the filing thereof,
riend'as sftan
Sec. 6t58. The bill of complaint and the answer thereto,
B-'pt.
except when the affidavit to the answer is expressly waived
by the bill, shall be verified by the affidavit of the party filing the same, or by his agent or solicitor. The verification to
the bill, and also to the answer or other pleading when
required to be made under oath, may be made by the agent
or solicitor:
First. When such party is a non-resident of, or is absent
from the countv in which the action is brought.
Second, When all the facts are within the personal knowl
edge of the agent or solicitor.
Third, When the party is an infant, or of unsound mintj,
or imprisoned.
Sec. 669. The verification of the bill, answer or other.ver mention
pleading may be made before and certified by a person whom.'
authorized to administer an oath in the state, territory or
foreign country in which the party may be or resides at the
time. The official character of such officer, if out of this
Territory, must be attested by the seal of some court of record
within such state, territory or foreign power. The verifica
tion of a pleading shall be to the effect that the deponent has
read the pleading, or has heard it read, and knows the con
tents thereof, and that the same is true of his own knowledge,
except as to the matters which are therein stated to be on his
.information and belief, and as to those matters, that he believes
it to be true, and the substance of the oath administered shall
be stated in the jurat.
Sec. 670. When the -complainant or couiplainants shall Em.t, „,. ,„ .
waive the necessity of the answer being made on the oath of *""'
the defendant or defendants, t i answer shall have no other
or greater force as evidence than the bill.
Sec. 671. When a bill is taken pro confesso, before final -when n bin i*
«lecree is made, if deemed requisite, the court may order the .>"s™ '"'"
complainant to produce documents and witnesses to prove the
allegations of the bill, or may examine him on path, or
• affirmation, touching the facts therein alleged.
Sec. 672. Whenever an execution shall have been issued Execution.
against the property of any defendant, on a judgment at law
or decree in equity, and shall have been returned unsatisfied,
in whole or in part, the party issuing such execution may
file a bill in chancery against-, such defendant or defendants,
and any other person or persons, to compel the discovery of any real estate, personal property, money or other thing in
action due to him or them, or held in trust for him or them :
and from sftd after the date of the service of the subpoena
issued on such bill, or the first publication of notice as here
inbefore required, as the case may be, the action shall be
deemed pending so its to charge all real estate, personal
property, money or other thing in action belonging to or held
in trust as aforesaid, for said defendant or defendants, with a
lien thereon, as in case of attachment at law, and the same
shall be subject to the final decree or order of the court which
shall be made in the cause. And like proceedings may be
had to compel the discovery of a decedent's property, whose
administrator conceals and misapplies the same.
rii.. com-i can
Sec. 673. The court shall have power to compel such
,vy.
discovery as is provided m the last preceding section, and to
decree satisfaction of the sum remaining due on such judg
ments or decrees out of the proceeds of the sale of any real
estate or personal property, or out of any money or thing in
action belonging to- the defendant or defendants, which shall
be discovered by the proceeding in chancery; and the court
is empowered to make all necessary decrees for the sale of
real estate or personal property,, and to enforce the collection
of all money or other thing in action, of such defendant or
defendants, discovered as aforesaid ; Provided, that no answer
made to any bill filed under this and the last preceding
section shall be read in evidence against the defendant or
defendants on the trial of an indictment for the fraud charged
in the bill.
Actimi nh.aii
Sec. 674. No action shall abate by reason of the death,
marriage or disability of any party, if the cause of action
survive and continue.
In either case the action may be
revived and continued by or against the representative of
such deceased or disabled, or married party, by motion mado
in open court, within one year after the death, marriage or
disability of the party, or afterwards by supplemental bill and
service of subpoena or publication of notice thereof, according
to the provisions of sections numbered six hundred and fiftynine or six hundred and sixty-one of this code, as the castmay be. In case of any transfer of interest, the action may be continued in the name of the original party ; or the court
may allow the person to whom the interest is transferred to
be substituted in the action by motion or supplemental bill as
aforesaid.
Sec. 675. In all actions in chancery and actions to obtain rnkumm Un
title to lands, if there be persons interested in the same
whose names are unknown, it shall be lawful to make such
persons parties to such suits or proceedings by the name and
description of persons unknown, or unknown heirs or devisees
of any deceased person who has been interested in the subject
matter of the action, previous to his or her death ; but in all
such cases, the affidavit shall be filed in the office of the
register, by the party desiring to make any unknown person
a party, stating that the names of such persons are unknown
to him, and that he has made diligent inquiry to ascertain
the name or names of such unknown person or persons, and
process shall be issued against all parties by the name and
description given as aforesaid, and publication of notice, as
is required in section six hundred and sixty-one, shall be
sufficient to authorize the court to hear and determine the
action as though all parties had been sued by their proper
names.
Sec. 676. All decrees, orders and proceedings made or Derives. onicm
had with respect to such unknown persons, shall have the j™s. '",'"
same effect and be as binding and conclusive upon them, as
though such action or proceeding had been instituted against
them by their proper names.
Sec. 677. Whenever a decree shall be made in any suit
in chancery, directing the execution of any deed or other
writing, and the party against whom the same shall have
been entered, shall not comply therewith within the time
required, it shall be lawful for the court, by an order to direct
a master or specially appoint a commissioner to execute the
same. The execution thereof by such master or commissioner
shall be as valid in law to pass, release or extinquish the
right, title and interest of the party on whose behalf it is
executed, as if it had been executed by such party in proper
person «in conformity with such decree; and such deed or
other writing, if it relate to land, shall be recorded in the office of the register of deeds of the county wherein the
lands lie, in the same manner and with like effect as deeds are
therein recorded.
Sec. G78. In all cases where a sale of property is decreed,
the court may direct the same to be made for cash, or on such
credit and on such terms as it may deem best and most equit
able to the interest of the several parties.
Sec. 679. All decrees rendered for the payment of
money, or for the sale of real estate Or personal property,
shall bo and remain a lien upon the real estate of the defend
ant or defendants within the county in which the action is
brought, for the period of five years, and if the amount of
such decree, or any balance thereof, shall remain uncollected
by the usual proceedings in chancery, the same may be col
lected by execution, as in cases of execution upon judgments
at law.
When the ac- Sec. 680. When the subpoena has been served, or publiHou is deemed
jimdimr.
cation ot notice is first made, the action is deemed pending.
so as to charge third persons with notice of its pendency; and
while pending no interest can be acquired by third persons in
the subject matter thereof, as against the complainant's right
or title thereto.
jk'f'-udunt ma - Sec. 681. Any defendant may, after filing his answer,
me cru*"-Mii. exhJt-jt an<i fjle },js cross bill, containing interrogatories to the
complaint or complaints, and call upon him or them to make
answer thereto. In such case the complainants shall be held
to answer, plead, demur or except to such cross bill, in the
same manner and under the same penalties that a defendant
or defendants are hereinbefore required to answer, plead,
demur or except to an orignal bill.
If the cross bill is filed
in term time, the complainant or complainants shall answer
within such time as the court may order; if filed in vacation,
the complainant or complainants shall answer such cross bill
within the time hereinbefore prescribed for defendants to
answer original bills; and the issuance, service and return of
subpoena, or publication of notice in case of non-residents,
shall be the same as hereinbefore provided in the comrnence"anJwefcro'l ment of actions in chancery.
™]}jj£om r"'°
Sec. 682. If the complainant or complainants shall fail to answer all the allegations and interrogatories of the cross
bill, his bill shall be dismissed with costs, or the new matter
set out in the defendant's cross-bill shall bo taken pro confegso
and as true, and a decree entered accordingly.
Sec. 680. The complainant or complainants shall not be
compelled to file his or their answer to any cross-bill until the
defendant shall have filed a sufficient answer to the complain
ant's bill.
Sec. 684. No complainant shall be allowed to dismiss his
bill, after a cross-bill has been filed, without the consent of the
defendant.
Sec. 6Si>. When a bill is defective for want of parties, the when bin \same not appearing on the face of the bill, the defendant may wlant of parties.
suggest
the defect in his answer,' stating
gn
o the name and resi
deuce of the party who should be impleaded in the bill, together
'with his interest in the subject matter in controversy. The
complainant may have the cause set down for argument on that
objection onlv by entering on the appearance docket, an entry
to the effect following, to-wit : "Set down upon the defend
ant's objection for want of parties." Where the complainant
shall not so set down his cause, but shall proceed therewith to
a hearing, notwithstanding an objection for want of parties,
he sha.il not, at the hearing of the cause, if the defendant's
objection be then allowed, be entitled to an order as of course
for liberty to amend his bill, but the court shall be at liberty
to dismiss the bill. If a defendant shall, at the hearing of a
cause, object that a suit is defective for want of parties, not
having by plea or answer taken the objection, and therein
specified by name and description the parties to whom the ob
jection applies, the court, if it shall think fit, shall be at liberty
to make a decree, saving the rights of the absent parties.
Sec. 686. The master who is charged by a party with Masterinchsnthe taking of testimony, shall, by ordei in such case, fix acor>
time and place for the taking of such proofs, giving not less
than five days' notice thereof to the parties, their counsel or
solicitors, and the proofs shall be taken in presence of the
parties or their agents, or such of them as may attend, and the
examination of witnesses shall be conducted, as near as may
be, in the mode now used in common law courts. The deposition shall be reduced to writing by the master, and shall be
taken in the form of interrogatories and answers, unless the
parties agree that it may be taken in the form of narrative,
and when complete, shall be signed by the witness in the pres
ence of the parties or their counsel, or such of them as may
attend, but if the witness refuse to sign his deposition, then
the master shall state the fact and sign the same. Any ques
tion or other matter of evidence which may be objected to,
shall be noted by the master at the time, stating the objection,
but shall not have power to decide on the competency,
materiality or relevancy of the question or other matter of
evidence. If either party shall fail to attend at the time and
place of examination, the master may proceed ex parte, or in
his discretion may adjourn the examination to a future day,
giving notice to the absent party or his solicitor, of such
adjournment. The master is empowered to issue subpoena ta
witnesses and process of attachment against such as make
default, and to adjourn the examination and proceedings before
him from time to time, until the same is completed, subject,
however, to the order of the court.
special master.
Sec. 687. Upon the application of either party, the court
may, in its discretion, appoint a special master in any cause.
impositions.
Sec. G88. The deposition of any witness residing in any
other county in this Territory than that in which the action
is pending, may be taken, upon notice to the adverse party,
stating the title of the cause, .the name of the court in which
the same is pending, the time and place of taking the deposi
tion, and that the same will be used on the hearing of the
cause; such notice shall be served on the adverse party, his
agent or attorney of record, by delivering to said party, his
agent or attorney,, a copy thereof, or by leaving a copy at his
usual place of residence, and shall be served so as to allow
said party sufficient time, by the usual route of travel, to
attend, and one day for preparation, exclusive of Sundays and
the day of service, and the examination may, if so stated in
the notice, be adjourned from day to day.
Sec. 689. Depositions taken under and by virtue of the
last preceding section, may be taken before a judge or clerk of
the supreme or district court, or before a justice of the peace.
Sec. 090. On application of the parties to an action, or
any one or more of them, to the register of the court of the
county in which the action is pending, the said register shall
issue a commission or commissions to take depositions of
witnesses in any other county of this Territory, or in any
state, territory or foreign country, upon interrogatories filed
in his office.
Sec. 691. Before the issuance of any such commission,
the party applying therefor, shall give ten days' notice to the
adverse party, of the filing of such interrogatories, and that
unless cross interrogatories shall be filed in the office of said
register 'within that time, a commission will be issued ex parte.
The party making the application shall name on his part a
commissioner, with the name of the county, city or town, and
state, territory or foreign country, of his residence; and the
adverse party, on filing cross interrogatories, may also name
on his part a commissioner of the same place. The testimony
may be taken before the commissioners, jointly or before one
of them upon notice to the other, of the time and place of
taking the same ; and the fact of giving such notice must be
stated in the return of the commissioner taking the same.
Sec. 692. The commissioner or commissioners thus des
ignated and appointed shall have full power and authority to
administer oaths and affirmations to the witnesses or parties
examined before hiin or them, taissue subpoena to said witnesses
and issue process of attachment against such as make default.
Sec. 693. When th6 party against whom the deposition is Not in- .
intended to be taken, is a non-resident of this Territory, and
has no agent or attorney of record in the county in which the
action is pending, then a copy of the notice required by sec
tion six hundred and eighty-eight, for taking the deposition,
one copy Of the notice required by section six hundred and
ninety-one of filing interrogatories, as the case may be, shall
be filed in the office of the register of the court in which the
action is pending, fifteen days prior to the time of taking the
deposition or the issuance of the commission, and a minute
thereof, and of the date of filing such copy, shall be entered
on the appearance docket of said court in the cause.
Sec. 694. Every deposition taken under the provision?
of this title, shall be written in the presence of the officer or
person taking the same, either by such officer or person, the
witness or some disinterested person, and subscribed by the
witness,
what the cer- Sec. 695. The officer, commissioner or commissioners
tiflcate * h :v 1 1
contain.
taking the deposition, shall annex thereto a certificate show
ing, —
First. That the witness was first duly sworn to testify the
truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth.
Second, That the deposition was reduced to writing in his
or their presence, by him or them, or by the witness or some
disinterested person, naming him, and that the same was
written in the presence of the witness, and by him subscribed
at the time of taking the same.
Sec. 696. The deposition so taken shall be sealed up and
indorsed with the title of the cause and the name of the per
son taking the same, and by him addressed and transmitted to
the register of the court where the action is pending. It
shall remain sealed until opened by order of the court, or at
the request of a party to the action, or his counsel or solicitor.
Sec. 697. The deposition taken as aforesaid, may be read
in evidence on the trial, or hearing of the cause in which it is
taken, and also in any subsequent action wherein the same
matter shall be in dispute between the same parties or persons,
their heirs, executors, administrators or assigns.
Sec. 698. Exceptions to depositions taken as aforesaid,
shall be in writing, specifying the grounds of objection, and
shall be filed, with the papers in the cause, and no exceptions
shall be regarded except for incompetency, immateriality or
irrelevancy, unless made in writing, as aforesaid, and tiled in
the office of the register before the commencement of the
trial or hearing of the cause.
Tin- master
Sec. 699. The master or commissioner is empowered to
huiv compel at- .
tendance of issue summons and command the presence of witnesses, and
to punish witnesses for neglect or refusal to obey his sum
mons, or for refusal to testify when present, unless exempt by
statute from giving evidence, by commitment to the jail of the
county for contempt; and all sheriffs trail constables in this
Territory are hereby required to serve and return all process
issued by masters or commissioners in the taking of deposi
tions. The master shall file the depositions within ten days
from the date thereof.
Sec. 700. In all actions in chancery, either party may Appeal,
appeal from the decree rendered, or final order made by the
district court, to the supreme court of this Territory. The
party appealing shall, within thirty days from the date of the
rendition of such decree or the making of such final order,
file in the office of the register of the court in which the
action is brought, a notice in writing of such appeal, and upon
the filing of such notice as aforesaid, and causing a minute
thereof, and of the date of such filing to be made in said
cause upon the appearance docket of said court, the a.ppeal
shall be deemed properly taken.
Sec. 701. No appeal taken as aforesaid shall operate as ;ij|,i*l Pxc<-uto
supersedeas, unless the appellant or appellants shall, within
the time aforesaid, execute or cause to be executed, a bond on
his or their part, to the adverse party, with one or more
sureties, as follows :
Firsts When the decree or final order appealed from directs
die payment of money, the bond shall be in double the
amount of the decree or final order, conditioned that the
appellant or appellants will prosecute such appeal without
delay, and pay all condemnation money and costs which may
he found against him or them on the final determination of
the cause by the supreme court.
Second, When the decree or final order directs the execu
tion of a conveyance or other instrument, the bond shall be in
such sum as may be prescribed by any district court of this
Territory, or any judge thereof in vacation, conditioned that
such appellant or appellants will prosecute such appeal without
delay, and will abide and perform the decree which shall be
rendered, or the final order which shall be made by the
supreme court in the cause; but instead of such bond, the
appellant or appellants may execute the conveyance or other
instrument, and deposit the same with the register of the
court, to abide the decree or final order of the appellate court.
Third, When the decree or final order directs the sale or delivery of possession of real estate the bond shall be in such
sum as may be prescribed as last aforesaid, conditioned that
the appellant or appellants will not, during the pendency of
such appeal, commit or suffer to be committed, any waste
upon such real estate, and will prosecute such appeal without
delay, and abide and perform in all things, the decree which
shall be rendered, or the final order which shall be made by
the supreme court in the cause.
Fourth, When the decree or final order directs the assign
ment, cancellation or delivery of conveyances, document-"
or other instruments, the assignment or cancellation mav
be made and the conveyance, documents or other instru
ments, thus assigned or cancelled, or to be delivered, may
be placed in the custody of the register of the court in
which the decree was rendered or final order made, to abide
the decree which shall be rendered, or the final order which
shall be made by the supreme court in the cause, or the
appellant or appellants may give bond as aforesaid, in such
.sum as may be prescribed as aforesaid, conditioned that he or
they will prosecute such appeal without delay, and abide anil
perform the decree which shall be rendered or the final order
which shall be made bv the supreme court in the cause; Pro
vided, that when the application to fix the amount of the bond
hereinbefore required, in any case of appeal, is made to any
district court 01 judge thereof, other than the district court in
which, or the judge before whom the cause has been heard
and decided, the party making such application shall give to
the adverse party, his agent, counsel or solicitor, at least five
days' notice in writing of the time and place of making such
application.
Komi must be
SeC. 702. Before any bond, executed as aforesaid, shall
operate as a supersedeas, the execution of such bond, and the
sufficiency of the sureties therein, , must be approved by the
court in which such decree was rendered, or final order made,
or by the judge thereof in vacation, or by the register of said
court, and such approval must be indorsed upon the bond,
and sighed by said court or person taking the same, and the
bond filed in the office of the register of the adverse party,
ned tranship!; Sec. 703. The appellant or appellants shall within six months from and after the date of the filing in the register's
office a notice of his appeal, procure from said register and
file in the office of the clerk of the supreme court of this Ter
ritory, a certified transcript of the proceedings had in the cause
in the district court, containing the pleadings and the decree
rendered, or final order made thereon, and all the depositions
of record offered in evidence, and all other evidence of record
offered on the hearing of the cause, and have the cause prop
erly docketed in the said supreme court; and on failure
thereof, the decree rendered or final order made in the district
court shall stand and he proceeded in as if no appeal hail been
taken.
Skc. 704. Actions in chancery may be commenced and Actions nin> )>r
by infant*.
prosecuted and defended by infants or other persons who are
under guardianship, or otherwise incapable to sue for them
selves, by. their general guardians, by guardians ad litem, or
by their next friend. A guardian ad litem shall be appointed
by the court, upon the petition of the party who is incapable
of prosecuting or defending a cause for himself. If the
application for the appointment is not made within the usual
time for the appearance, the adverse party may apply to the
vourt to appoint a suitable person as the guardian. No per
son shall be appointed a guardian ad litem who has any
interest adverse to the person for whom he is appointed or
<connected in business with the solicitor or counsel for the
adverse party. No money or property belonging to the per
son for whom the appointment is made, shall be delivered to
any guardian ad litem, unless he shall, under such directions
as the court shall, by order make, give a bond with suffi
cient security for the faithful application of such money or
property, as the court shall direct. Summary application
by petition to the court, may be made for all necessary orders
directing guardians ad litem.
Sec. 70o. All proceeding in actions in chancery not
herein provided, shall be agreeably to the rules and practice
in courts in equity.
Sec. 706. An action in chancery may be brought and
prosecuted to final decree, judgment or order, and all neces
sary subsequent proceedings thereon, in order to carry into
effect such decree, judgment or order, may be had by any
. person who holds an absolute title to real estate, against am'
person who claims an adverse estate or interest therein, for
the purpose of determining such estate or interest : Provided
however, That the person claiming such adverse estate or
interest is not in possession of the property : And provided
further, That the provisions of this title shall not apply to
the settlement, partition or division of real estate among the
heirs of a decedent, where the same is provided fur bv the
intestate laws of this Territory.
Sec. 707. The district judges in each of the districts in
this Territory, shall have power to appoint some person resid
ing in each of the organized counties of said district, as a
master in chancery, for said counties respectively, who shall
hold his office for three years, unless sooner removed by said
judge, and shall keep his office at the county seat; said judges
shall only have power to remove any master in chancery
within their respective districts, upon proof, in open court,
of incompetency or negligence in discharging his duty; and
they shall have power at any time to fill all vacancies occa
sioned by removal as herein provided, by death, resignation or
otherwise.
Sec. 708. Said master in chancery shall be sworn to
faithfully perforin the duties of their office, and they shall
have power to perform the ordinary duties of master in chan
cery, together with the duties of a judge of the district court
of chancery in vacation.
Sec. 709. Whenever the master in chance/y for any
county .shall remove therefrom, or become otherwise incapaci
tated to discharge the duties of his office, the district court
for such county shall declare the office vacant, and appoint
another person thereto, in the same manner as if the same
had never been filled.
Sec. 710. That an act entitled "An act to establish a code
of civil procedure for the Territory of Wyoming,'' approved
December 10, 1869, be and the same is hereby repealed :
Provided, That this section shall not be construed to affect or
repeal the provisions of said act, contained under the title of
"Occupying Claimants," nor the provisions of said act under title thirty, concerning informations; and provided also that
this act shall have no application to mortgages. of real estate,
lands or tenements heretofore executed, but the said mort
gages shall have effect until their satisfaction under laws in
force at the time of their execution, including the right to
redeem under the law concerning the redemption of real
estate,, and provided, also, that this act shall have -no applica
tion to promissory notes heretofore executed, and foreign
judgments heretofore obtained, all of which shall be governed
and controlled by the laws of this Territory now in force.
Skc. 711. This act shall take effect and be in force from
and after the first day of March, A. D. 1874.
Approved December 11, 1873
An Act Providing for Changes of Venue in Civil and Crim
inal Cases.
Be it Unacted by the Council and House of Representatives
of the Territory of Wyoming:
Section 1. That the court in term, or the judge thereof chanpn of
venue inav be
an vacation, shall change the venue ot any civil action upon had.
the application of either party, made upon affidavit showing
one or more of the following causes:
First, That the judge has been engaged as counsel in the when judge

has been cor.rtcase prior to his election or appointment as judge, or is other- -c).
wise interested in the cause; or
Second, That the judge is of kin to either party; or
when judge is
Thirds That the opposite party has ?.n undue influence over \yncB the opthe citizens of the county, or that an odium attaches to the E",,,,]'.."'!/
applicant or to his cause of action or defense, or on account lhl*nceof local prejudice; or,
Fourth, When the county is a party to the suit; or,
,When comity
is a party.
Fifth, Showing to the satisfaction of the court that the con Convenience of
venience of witnesses and the ends of justice would be witl!
promoted by the change ; or.
